The market does believe, as the Fed
talked about yesterday, that we are
approaching the trough of economic
growth.
>> Now, it's don't fight the Fed and don't
fight the AI trade.
>> I'm not convinced that anybody's ready
to give up on US technology
outperformance.
>> In stock markets and companies, the
truth is if you're not growing, you're
not going to be around for long.
>> You don't want to be underweight.
Everybody is right now.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday at record highs. All major
benchmarks hitting fresh records for the
first time since 21 as President Trump
is gearing up for a phone call with
President Xi. FedEx is working to shake
off a $1 billion hit from this year's
big shift in trade policy.
>> So, this is the big irony and you set it
up perfectly. This idea of record highs
and yet we're still dealing with this
massive shift in trade policy that still
has uncertainty that might get uh sort
of resolved in some capacity when we get
this phone call between G and Trump. How
much are companies able to brush it off?
FedEx you mentioned still managing to
beat expectations on Wall Street even
with a $1 billion hit related to China
trade as well as just generally extra
costs.
>> We've moved on reinstated guidance
looking for growth mids single digits I
know but we've moved on equities record
highs. We talked a lot about credit
spreads investment grade multi-deade
tights high yield near the tights of the
year. This market has moved on. and how
much is this something that's healthy
and how much is this developing into a
bubble and does it really matter? And I
think that this is sort of the
existential angst heading into the
weekend. The idea if if if it's a
bubble, maybe you want to buy in even
more because bubbles can last a lot
longer than people can doubt them. So
there's this question of as you see
people rush into stocks. You see a
complete flood out of cash. You see a
flood out of bonds. You feel everyone
just saying don't fight the Fed, don't
fight policy. Don't fight the US
consumer that keeps on spending and
keeps on spending a lot,
>> but respect the process. Mike Gape and
Morgan Stanley this morning. Downside
risk to the economy should remain
elevated while the corporate sector
tries to pass higher tariffs onto
consumers goes on to say this process
has only just begun.
>> So here's the ultimate question and I
think that the Fed really addressed that
this week. How much will the Fed
underwrite any potential weakness that
comes on the heels of some of these
tariffs? and the idea that we're seeing
these tariffs and we're seeing companies
adapt and adjust like FedEx and you're
still seeing consumers buy, you're still
seeing consumers spend and they've been
able to absorb it. So, can we write off
that weakness? I and I think that this
is sort of the tension right now because
you've never seen a a loosening cycle,
an easing cycle like what we have seen
since last September, 125 basis points
of rate cuts by the Federal Reserve
without a recession. Since the 1980s, we
have not seen this level of cuts. And so
now we're suddenly seeing stocks race to
record highs because they are embracing
the idea we are not going to see
weakness that has not come through yet.
>> And let's be clear, the Fed's not done.
They're indicating there's more to come.
And this meeting was important. Why?
Because the other forecast suggested
this economy will be okay. In fact, they
cut interest rates and revised the
outlook for growth higher, not down.
They revised it up.
>> So here is the other issue that I think
markets are dealing with. It sort of
tacitly allows inflation to run hotter.
And in that type of environment, stocks
can keep on doing well as long as
consumers can absorb it. The real tell
will be the Christmas shopping season
and whether consumers will absorb some
of the higher prices as we've heard from
retailers or whether they'll push back.
And that ultimately will really decide
how much inflation can run a little bit
hotter and how much that really could
affect the bond market which people are
pulling back from. In any case,
>> if it's good for stocks, is it really
good for bonds? Yields this morning by a
basis point across the curve. Tens at
412. Coming up this hour, we'll catch up
with Jeff Hugh of BMY with record highs
across Wall Street, Ed Mills of Raymond
James ahead of President Trump's call
with China's Giinping and Pierre Farugu
of New Street Research on Nvidia's big
bet on Intel. We begin this hour with
all four major benchmarks closing at new
records for the first time since
November 2021. Investors diving into
risk with Fed interest rate cuts on the
way. Jeff Hugh of BMY writing the
following. We remain of the view that
rate differentials for the Fed versus
major peers have reached their point of
maximum pricing for this year. Jeff
joins us now for more. Jeff, welcome
back to the program, sir. Let's build on
that line there on interest rates. Push
that through foreign exchange. What does
it mean for the US dollar?
>> Well, for the US dollar, I do think that
a lot of the hedging that allegedly has
been put on over the last few weeks and
you got to unwind that. uh we're looking
at even with what's priced them right
now uh the US enjoying perhaps good rate
differentials you know versus most of
its peers I'm looking at uh dollar yen
for example but also versus rest of APAC
dollar Taiwan you know dollar nimbi
dollar one so I think all of that's in
play for the international investors um
who are looking at the stock indices and
now look in the US and saying maybe in
terms of earnings translation I'm in
overweight US because the dollar has
cheapened quite a bit this year now I
want my total return to come more from
the exchange rate side as much as the
stock side.
>> Jeeoff, which asset class is in the
driving seat at the moment and what's
the relationship between risk, say
equities and foreign exchange?
>> Well, I would say still those
allocations in the US, US
exceptionalism, you know, how much of
your returns distribution do you want
from the indices and how much do you
want from the dollars? Um, so from the
exchange rate, I do think that's going
to pass on more to the exchange rate at
this point. And also in terms of the
Treasury market, if you look at the
data, if you look at our flow numbers,
you know, for example, I'd say the US
it's still doing quite well. Yes,
crossber flows have softened a bit, but
again for this year, there's no sign of
that mass liquidation that people were
talking about in the second quarter.
>> Jeeoff, what you're saying is pretty
radical considering that the consensus
trade is that the dollar is going to
weaken. And some people have speculated
that the pain trade for the remainder of
this year would be a strengthening
dollar, which is essentially what you're
betting will happen. What do you think
that will disrupt the most in the market
if we do get some kind some kind of
significant dollar strengthening?
>> Uh well I think markets will actually
know welcome that as a bit of an
adjustment in terms of where the US is
in terms of relative growth. But I would
just want to pick up on something you
said about uh the Christmas shopping
season. I think Governor UEA of the POJ
actually mentioned that during his press
conference today, saying he's now
looking at the export orders for
Japanese companies to get a gauge of how
the US um shopping the US holiday
shopping season uh is is geared towards.
So I think you know that's where you're
going to see foreign central banks you
know look at the external circumstances
and whereby can the US maintain its
current trajectory. If it can then I do
think that the dollar will benefit.
>> So just build on that Jeeoff because
this actually is really interesting. How
much is the global economy and global
central bank policy hinging on how much
the US can consumer can keep on spending
and keep absorbing any kind of cost
increases?
>> Well, put it this way. I think uh they
are depending on it more than they're
letting on at this point. So yes, if you
look at Apac um sales to the US export
to the US that has come off but it
hasn't been a structural break in the
relationship. If I look at ahead of
today's phone call for example between
the two presidents it seems like this
rolling threemonth agreement you know
that seems to be the new normal the new
equilibrium uh and you're seeing the
exporters in Apac who are very nimble
they are adjusting to that so again you
know there isn't this structural break
that we're seeing they still are
dependent on it may not be rising but
that dependency is still there
>> so Jeeoff we started out the show
talking about this tension between all
of the indexes in the US at record highs
for the first time since 2021 the
Russell 2000 are really the on creating
that benchmark and at the same time
we're seeing this ongoing discussion
between China and the US as you were
mentioning about tariffs. It still isn't
a settled done deal. Is that a tension
at this point or have we resolved the
trade story? Is there still not a lot of
tail risk that can come from sort some
sort of reaceleration and some of the
tensions?
>> So I think the the higher risk has been
priced. So we all follow the Yale budget
lab. you know what the average um level
of tariffs is and you compared uh to um
before the new administration. So that
already is baked into the price. So in
terms of the new shock to the market,
are there expectations of additional
tariffs or a reversion to maybe what we
saw in early April for example, I don't
think you know that is coming back into
the price and we would broadly agree
with that view. I think it's in
everyone's interest right now to
maintain this new status quo so to
speak. Um but as mentioned at the top of
the hour so whether um consumers
especially in the US spenders can they
continue to absorb that uh and also you
know globally you're seeing you know
trade tensions you know rise uh as well
I look at the retail sales numbers
released in the UK for example this
morning as much as we're talking down
the UK economy they're still pretty
robust so consumers globally they still
are spending and now is there going to
be a pivot on part of APAC consumers
where there has been more disinflation
and China is trying to drive up CPI for
example are we actually going to get an
upside lift there I think that's going
to One of the talking points for the
rest of the year is stimulus coming to
Asia. Yeah, let's stay on that. Are you
seeing signs that they're willing to cut
over capacity in China? Are you seeing
any of that at all?
>> Uh, so the messaging from Beijing has
been very clear. A change in mindset in
industrial policy, a change in how
corporates behave, this cut throw
competition. I think that is very clear
right now. I think now we're in the
implementation, you know, phase, you
know, can the corporates actually adjust
their behavior accordingly? I think the
pro the proof will be in the earnings
results. But if you look at what's
driving the sectors being driven um in
terms of Chinese equities right now,
it's actually the tech story as well.
It's the structural growth story rather
than the consumer side of things. So I
think now that's where reality you know
versus what the policy statements are
saying. We need a bit of conversion.
>> Well this is it Jeeoff we've been
talking about this for years that they
would cut back on the over capacity that
they would do something about boosting
consumption. Jeff I've seen that and
heard it a million times and then it
doesn't materialize. Is that actually
going to come together next year? So I
would say the rhetoric has been far far
stronger compared to any previous
attempts. So two things I'm watching
for. One of course the corporate
earnings and also the PPI the export
prices from Chinese companies but also
what we're seeing right now and is this
a debasement story for fiat money in
general. Is it a terms of trade story
driven by China commodity prices and
also the companies the holdings of
companies the miners associated with
commodities that is rising. So uh what
we're seeing in equity flows right now
is growth is being priced in from
somewhere and given where US valuations
are I do think that a pickup in China
and leading Asia along the way I think
that is coming through. A key part of
that is AP pack currency strengthening a
stronger be greater tolerance of that if
that increases purchasing power on the
part of Chinese and broader AP pack
consumers that can only be a good thing
for the global economy.
>> Jeff thank you sir appreciate it. Jeff
you of BMY and that cyclical tilt
starting to emerge elsewhere out of
Asia. You know, the idea here is he was
talking all about reaceleration. He was
talking about the gauge of how much the
reaceleration could really uh take on
steam. And we're talking globally.
Again, no one's talking about weakness.
You mentioned is there going to be this
weakness from uh some of the higher
prices and consumers pushing back. No
one is talking about that in any
capacity this whole week. And I think
that that is the big takeaway.
>> You mentioned the Bank of Japan as well.
Did you see the headline from this
morning about normalizing the balance
sheet a little bit?
>> Okay. ETF roll out.
>> Yes.
>> Sales plan. It's going to take a hundred
years. A hundred years to sell off that
position that they built up.
>> Okay. You picked up on exactly the right
point. On one hand, normalizing the
balance sheet. Oh my goodness. They have
a half of a trillion dollars of ETFs on
their balance sheet. They own about
threequarters of the market or something
like that. I'll get the exact statistic
coming up. But they're just allowing a
nominal amount to roll off every year.
This was uh what we heard from Governor
UEA at the conference. We won't be here
in a 100 years time, but our intention
is to keep selling for more than a
hundred years. So, you know, it's it's
definitely a notable move. I don't know
that it's going to uh break the bank, so
to speak.
>> If in doubt, make it someone else's
problem.
>> Exactly.
>> Equity futures this morning unchanged on
the S&P 500. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere with your Bloomberg
brief. Here's Yahara Arnand. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. Sticking with the Bank of
Japan, it kept interest rates unchanged
at half a percent, but took a step, as
you said, toward policy normalization.
and the BOJ announcing it would start to
offload its $58 billion stockpile of
ETFs. It marks the first time the BOJ
has laid out a plan for offloading the
assets accumulated over years of ultra
easy monetary policy. And as you said,
it said it's going to take a 100red
years. Meanwhile, in the United States,
President Donald Trump is gearing up for
a phone call with Chinese President
Xiinping. The two are set to speak at
9:00 a.m. Eastern on the agenda, the
fate of Tik Tok, and potentially easing
trade tensions between the world's
biggest economies. The call may lead to
an in-person meeting between the two
before the end of the year. And FedEx
shares are rising 5 and a4% in the
pre-market. it after it beat on both the
top and bottom lines in the first
quarter and it reinstated its outlook
that overshadowing a warning from FedEx
that it expects a 1 billion dollar hit
from trade volatility. Most of that
comes from reduced shipments from China
to the US. That's great. John
>> stock is up 5%. Yhara, thank you.
Appreciate it. More from Yahara later
this hour. Up next on the program,
direct talks with China. I'm speaking
with President Xi as you know having to
do with Tik Tok and also trade and we're
very close to deals on all of it. It
sounds like they've approved Tik Tok and
Tik Tok is a tremendous amount of money
for the United States.
>> Up next, Ed Mills of Rama James live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
[Music]
bouncing back from a two-day losing
streak in yesterday's session. A really
nice day of gains heading towards a
third consecutive weekly advance for the
S&P and the NASDAQ. For the Russell,
we're looking at a 7W week run, the
longest going back almost 5 years. So,
how much is this a catch-up and how much
does this have legs? A lot of people
saying that the idea of rotating into
the other 493 definitely has legs. The
idea that the Russell 2000 is emblematic
of the rest of the universe given that
it's a $3 trillion market cap less than
Nvidia, maybe less so, but still
something very notable to watch.
>> We've traded off the rate story. Now,
show me the growth. Yes.
>> Show me some real growth going into 26.
Equity futures this morning just about
unchanged. Under surveillance this
morning, direct talks with China. I'm
speaking with President Xi as you know
having to do with Tik Tok and also trade
and we're very close to deals on all of
it and my relationship with China is
very good. You know we have a trade deal
with them. We had a very good meeting
the other day and it sounds like they've
approved Tik Tok and Tik Tok is a
tremendous amount of money for the
United States. So that was nice.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
President Trump and China's leader Xi
Jinping are speaking at 9:00 am Eastern
time. The lead is expected to talk
trade, tech, and a deal to keep Tik Tok
in the United States. With the latest,
here's Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall. Good
morning, Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, you said
it. We're expecting the main focus of
this conversation to be around the
framework agreement for Tik Tok. We're
still awaiting a lot of details, but
people familiar tell us that a potential
deal will be structured with a group of
outside US investors, including Oracle,
existing US investors, and then Bite
Dance will hold a less than 20% stake in
the company. all part of a bid to try to
satisfy Congress's national security
laws. So, no doubt tech is going to be
at the center of the conversations
today. That goes for Invidia as well, as
the company has repeatedly found itself
at the center of these trade
negotiations. But at this point, it
really feels like Tik Tok might be the
most tangible development that we get
out of this call. Because while it
appears the broader trade talks are on
track, we heard President Trump
yesterday tell reporters that he is
considering extending that tariff truce
that's set to expire on November 10th.
This call is really widely seen as a way
to lay the groundwork for a potential
face-to-face meeting between the two
leaders. It appears they're eyeing a
potential meeting next month at the APEC
summit in South Korea. And that is when
we are really expecting to see perhaps
uh more developments when it comes to
how the trade talks are progressing. And
that includes on market access for US
products. And John, I bring that up
because new data analyzed by Bloomberg
News show that China has not placed any
orders for US soybeans so far this
export season. And it's leading our
analysts at Bloomberg Economics to say
that this really underscores how the
clock is ticking to see perhaps some
more development, some more movement
when it comes to addressing US concerns
in these trade talks.
>> Tyler, thank you. We showed some
pictures there of President Xi Jinping
and he had two flags behind him. One was
the Chinese flag, the other was the
Brazilian flag. If you want to know
where these soybeans are coming from,
that's exactly where they're coming from
and going into China. And we've seen a
strategic move by China, particularly
into Latin America, South America, and
trying to secure a lot of raw goods, raw
materials on a whole host of fronts in
order to immunize themselves from the
United States.
>> And it's hurt American farmers and
that's going to become a bigger and
bigger piece of the conversation here
domestically when we talk about these
trade issues. Joining us now is Ed Mills
of Rayma James. Ed, welcome to the
program, sir. Let's start with Tik Tok.
How are you thinking about Tik Tok? Is
it its own individual story or is it
part of a broader trade negotiation?
>> Well, I think John, if I look at the
law, Tik Tok should not be operating
here in the United States, but for the
fact that the president has extended
this through executive order. Um, and
there's a lot of conversation here in DC
whether or not he had that authority.
The big issue is who is going to sue on
that. Um and then when we look at this
deal, one of the big questions has been
uh whether or not the algorithm is going
to continue to be um controlled by bite
dance, which is a Chinese company. Um I
went through the law, John, and it does
say that um a qualified devestature,
there's two paragraphs, and the first
words of each paragraph is the president
determined. The president determined. Uh
so we're going to have a lot of
conversations in DC whether or not the
spirit of the law is followed. Uh the
letter of the law is followed. Uh but
ultimately kind of Congress did give a
certain level of difference to President
Trump. He's going to use that difference
to cut a deal. I think he does want Tik
Tok to continue. He does that want that
for his base, especially as we go into
the midterm elections. And then we work
on all of the other things uh as part of
uh setting the table for that inerson
meeting between Trump and she.
>> So that's where I wanted to pick up.
said, "We've been wondering, is this all
about Tik Tok or is there a broader
range to some of these discussions and
I'm just wondering if what I'm hearing
from you is this really is about Tik Tok
and as long as they can get some sort of
agreement, then they can begin to talk
about the other issues." Am I getting
that correctly?
>> Yeah. Yeah. So when I talk to my
diplomatic sources, people who have
dealt with kind of these type of uh
negotiations, what they always talk
about is can we get some confidence
building exercises uh before we move to
the next step. Um I also heard from them
that President Xi very much likes to go
into facetoface meetings with 98 99% of
things settled. Uh so getting something
that's very contentious settled um and
we've had this kind of extension through
uh December 16th. um and that getting
kind of that process going and then if
we can have a delay of those November
10th uh deadlines for the next trade u
kind of a deadline with China, those are
things that can build that confidence
for them to sit down. And I'm also
looking for the Trump administration to
use that deadline and the fact that a
lot of these are AIPA based fentanyl
tariffs. Um, we have a November 5th
deadline now, uh, with the Supreme Court
holding oral arguments on whether or not
those are constitutional. Uh, the
administration trying to use this
meeting as a bit of theatrics of don't
undermine me as I'm still negotiating
with our largest um kind of competitor
on the world economy, the number two
economy in the world. Lisa,
>> so everyone's been talking about this as
though we're not really going anywhere.
We're kind of just three months, three
months, three months. This reminds me of
an American football pylon where it
looks like they're just sort of lying on
each other, but under the hood there's a
lot going on to try to jostle for the
ball. How much is the ball continuing to
move when it's about the antitrust suit
against Google that China put on and
then took off? I mean, all of these sort
of attempts to gain leverage, how much
is there that escalation risk in order
to get an upper hand on the bottom of
that pylon?
Yeah, Lisa, I think that's a really
important point because what we've seen
is China's been exceptionally different
in Trump 2.0 than they were in Trump
1.0. Uh they have been much more
aggressive. Um you mentioned that kind
of antitrust suit against Google. That's
off. Um one of the things that Trump
tried to do is escalate and then say,
I'm deescalating and giving you
something. But China, when it came to
the H20 chips with Nvidia, some of the
AMD chips, they're like, this is
something that we already had. and you
took away from us temporarily. Now,
we're not necessarily going to buy them
from you. What else can we do? We see
the deal yesterday of Nvidia investing
in Intel. And that brings up questions.
Are there more opportunities to expand
on kind of some of the relief that China
gets because that's what China really
wants. They don't want the tech
restrictions that they've had over the
last couple of years. They want access
to some of the chips that had been
previously banned, not the chips that
were banned temporarily almost for
theatrical reasons. Uh I think that's
going to be the real part of these uh
conversations that are going to be very
difficult and it's really going to trust
test, you know, uh kind of really test
Trump with his congressional base uh
whether or not Republicans allow him to
do that in any of these talks or do they
push back and put in law that he's not
allowed to give these chips uh to China.
I know a man called Jensen who would
like that to happen too. And are you
suggesting that maybe the top end chips
coming from Nvidia, maybe they might get
what they want, they might be able to
sell them into China? I am skeptical,
but I am sure this is going to be part
of the deal. Um, and especially when
things become transactional. Um, when
you look at the Tik Tok deal, what does
President Trump lead with? This is going
to be a lot of money for the United
States. Whether or not it complies with
the explicit instruction of Congress,
uh, is almost secondary. Uh we've seen
with the uh investments that President
Trump has wanted, the fact that um
Nvidia is investing a lot in the United
States, that gets him on his good side.
The fact that they're investing in Intel
that he took a stake in, that gets him
on his good side. The more they push,
the more likely this moves up to the top
of the conversation. uh and I wouldn't
put it past them to be able to get some
level of relief even if it is just not
as strict kind of harmonization globally
of some of the semicap equipment that is
currently restricted from the United
States going into China but maybe it's
not as restricted coming in from uh
Japan maybe it's not as restricted
coming in uh from the Netherlands that
would be a big win for China that they
would absolutely love it might not be
the kind of specific chip from Nvidia
but there's a lot of other nuances to
those restrictions that they would love
to Interesting, Ed. Thank you. Lots to
think about. Appreciate it. Ed Mills
there of Raymond James following that
blockbuster investment from Nvidia into
Intel is a question we asked yesterday.
Does that get Nvidia and Jensen what he
ultimately wants, which is the ability
to sell some of these high-end chips
into China?
>> He wants it. China wants it. Maybe it
could be a good negotiation tool. What
does the US get on the other side? This
is such a complicated kind of
negotiation, especially because I don't
have a good sense of what the ultimate
goals are, what the parameters are, what
people want the USChina relationship to
actually look like.
>> It's a new era of state craft coming
together in real time. Nvidia down in
the pre-market by about 0.2%. Up next on
the program, Marissa Adams of HSBC as
FedEx delivers a warning on tariffs and
trade. Plus, Yhira has your morning
movers. Intel down this morning just a
touch following the biggest one day move
since the 1980s
[Music]
60 minutes from now. Don't miss this
conversation. Jim Bulock, the former St.
Lewis Fed President joining us on the
program in the studio following his
conversation with the Treasury Secretary
Scott Besson to fill a seat vacated by
Chairman Pal early next year.
>> Very curious to see uh what the
parameters are for the discussion for a
potential future Fed chair. What is on
the table? Not that he's going to
necessarily disclose all of that, but I
want to understand how different the
mentality could be of the FOMC next year
with very different leadership.
>> If you had a dot plot, where would you
put your dot? how low would it be? And
Jim Bullard could turn around and say,
"Well, last time I was at the Federal
Reserve, this is where I put my dot."
And his dot was like rock bottom for
several years.
>> Yeah. Does he justify the relatively
rock bottom one that we saw with the
expected 125 basis points of rate cuts
this year alone, presumably from Steven
at yesterday's at this week's meeting.
Ultimately, we'll ask him that question.
Maybe he agrees.
>> Jim's a good spot. Looking forward to
having this conversation and the back
and forth with him at 7:30 Eastern time.
Let's take a beat and get into the
market. Equity futures unchanged on the
S&P 500. Really nice day of gains. Broad
day of gains through yesterday on the
S&P, the Nasdaq, on the Russell for the
last two months. Seven consecutive weeks
of gains for small caps. Is this a head
fake or is it a real deal?
>> And how much can it really gain legs
unless you see confirmation that
consumers can keep absorbing some of the
price increases? We've had conflicting
views whether it's a head fake, whether
it's something that's real. A lot of
people coalesing around the idea that
there is a real broadening out. The
Russell 2000 though is a separate bunch
of companies that is smaller and tends
to have shifted over time. So that
particularly isn't necessarily what
people are talking about. Everyone keeps
coalesing around the idea. If there's a
bubble, maybe you want to buy because
this bubble still has legs. And so
ultimately the valuation story isn't
really doing it for a lot of people.
>> The run continues even as the interest
rate story stabilizes. In fact, the
Federal Reserve fell well short of
market expectations and yet the run
continues for small caps in the bond
markets. Twos, 10, 30s look like this.
Your 2-year bond yield up a single basis
point to 357. 10's up too to 412. Want
to turn to foreign exchange and get to
dollar yen? Dollar yen in focus. The
Bank of Japan meets. Nothing happens.
Except something did happen beneath the
surface. Two people said, "You know
what? I think we should hike interest
rates." That was a bit of news out of
Tokyo this morning.
>> Yeah, that is the first time two people
have said no to Governor Uea and said,
"Actually, we disagree with your
policy." Not only that and we made light
of the fact that it will take a 100
years for them to roll off their ETF B
their ETF portfolio on their balance
sheet uh at the pace that they announced
overnight but that's important it's an
important signal they are in a
tightening mode and that is going
against some of the expectations in
markets 14792 just about unchanged this
morning but that next meeting might
bring an interest rate hike from the BOJ
let's leave that one there three hours
away from the opening bow let's get you
some morning movers back with us here
hey yhira
>> hi John we start If FedEx shares are
rising 5.3%
after it reinstated its outlook, saying
that it expects to deliver 4 to 6%
topline growth in 2026. That is much
higher than the 1% that Wall Street was
expecting. And that is overshadowing
what FedEx, a warning from FedEx saying
that it will take a $1 billion hit due
to President Trump's tariffs. A lot of
that having to do of course with lower
shipments from China to the US due to
the end of the dimminimous rule. And
another company that reported earnings
yesterday. But going in the other
direction is LAR. Shares are falling
2.8% after profit there took another
hit, falling for a fourth straight
quarter as this company continues to
offer big incentives to get buyers into
their homes due to still elevated
mortgage rates. And on top of that, it
its forecast for new orders also came in
light, adding to challenges there. And
we have Intel now just falling slightly
down about a third of a percent after
City Group poured just a tiny bit of
cold water on its massive rally. As you
said, it was the best since the 1980s.
Analysts there downgraded the stock to
sell. They say that Intel's valuation
trading at 57 times earnings is too rich
and that it factors in the success of
the foundry business which it seems
little chance of materializing and of
course the foundry business was not
mentioned in yesterday's deal
announcement with Nvidia. John
>> Yahara, thank you. Do you see the
president's meme that went round in the
last 24 hours overnight?
>> I missed that.
>> Him in front of like a Bloomberg
terminal with one screen bought for 20,
>> the other screen now at 30. Well, I
mean, yes, I did see that actually, and
I wasn't sure if it was real or not, but
the reality is he has become the
ultimate businessman in a different kind
of way than a president has ever become
before in terms of orchestrating deals
and taking stakes in the likes of Intel.
And it raises a new question for
investors in a space. Is this going to
be nationally strategic? And how much of
a tailwind is that actually given?
>> Pierre Farugu of New Street Research
joining us in about 10 minutes on this
conversation. On a radar this morning, a
phone call between US President Donald
Trump and Chinese leader Xi Jinping
scheduled for 9:00 a.m. Eastern time.
Trade negotiations and a potential Tik
Tok deal will be at the forefront of the
call. Elsewhere, another central bank
facing internal divisions. The BOJ
announcing a plan to offload a stockpile
of ETFs while holding interest rates
steady. Pressure building for a rate
hike with two dissenting votes. And
finally, Apple's iPhone 17 Pro models
opening up to strong demand across Asia.
New designs for the iPhone, Apple Watch,
AirPods are rolling out in the United
States today.
>> Yeah. And there evidently were long
lines even in China to uh to get some of
these uh new iPhones. I hadn't realized
it was a new roll out since 2020. I
hadn't realized that this was that kind
of upgrade. I think the real question
will be can this defy a lot of the
skepticism around Apple and how much
it's been an underperformer on the
Magnificent 7 despite they're not
necessarily getting the AI capabilities.
Although maybe we'll get it with an
update. I came through 58th Street this
morning, had a sneak peek of the line
that was starting to build. Nowhere near
what it used to be, of course. One tent,
one lonely tent at the front, few people
lying down on cardboard boxes, that kind
of thing. Some people standing up.
Wasn't that long at all.
>> Yeah. And there was a camera though for
people to film the line that was
assembling. I did notice that it wasn't
that long. And I wonder how much this is
a tell in terms of demand and how much
this is just people ordering it online
because it's really not fun to wait in
line.
>> It doesn't mean what it used to mean.
>> Exactly. People have figured out you
don't have to do that to get it. Just go
through other channels.
>> I don't understand the allure of that.
I've never understood the allure of
camping out there when you go in and
clapping. I mean, honestly, I went to a
crispy cream opening in in the Midwest
when I was very young and covering uh
news in a different capacity. Real news.
And it was a Crispy Cream opening and
there were people camped out around the
corner. And I was just not understanding
it then and I still don't understand.
>> They sort of clap you when you walk in.
>> Oh yeah. They're so excited. They camp
out. It's like real event.
>> I don't think investors are clapping.
That stock has underperformed the NASDAQ
by something like 20 percentage points.
so far this year.
>> I saw what you did there. That was
pretty good. I mean, look, that's the
truth is that investors need to be uh
impressed. My question is how long will
it take because it's also there are
delays and people have to order them and
there's a twoe delay evidently at least
so far in China.
>> That's the latest on Apple so far this
morning. Let's stay down on Wall Street.
FedEx reporting better than expected
earnings but warning of a $1 billion hit
from trade volatility this year. Marissa
Adams, the Europe and America's regional
head of global trade solutions at HSBC
joins us now for more. Marissa, welcome
back. We've got lots to talk about with
you, including the latest developments
in the UK. I just want to start with
mitigation strategies. It's something
you give us an update on every time we
talk. What are the mitigation strategies
now? And how sustainable are they? Are
we reaching a point where corporations
have got to make a decision? Either cut
some costs or pass this on.
>> Thanks Jonathan and good morning to you
and Lisa. We are getting to a bit of an
impass now where there is only so long
that companies can delay their
investments, delay their decisions in
terms of rejigging their supply chains
or looking for new demand markets. And
we've obviously seen a lot of first
movers actually act quite quickly. Uh
but we are getting to a point now where
the uncertainty rather than the level of
tariffs is going to be a challenge.
>> Well, you say that and that a lot of
people come on this show say peak
uncertainty is behind us and actually
there is enough stability in the trade
picture. I've lost you. I can't actually
hear you.
>> Uh let's try to reestablish that. Can
you hear me now?
>> Let's try to reestablish that. John,
that's
>> that's the question to me though is uh
you know, she was saying that the
uncertainty will still remain an issue
while so many people have come on the
show and talked about how there is a
greater degree of certainty now, which
gives companies the ability to make the
decisions you were talking about.
>> Francis Donald, what did she tell us?
RBC, she said, "We're getting to the
point, Marissa Adams was alluding to it.
We're getting to the point where
corporations got to think about what to
do here. cut costs, lay off labor, pass
it on, price hikes. It's exactly what
Mike Gapen and Morgan Stanley is
thinking about, too. A lot of people
might be surprised by this and say,
"You're just market to market. You're
pushing this off." Many people said at
the very beginning, you're not going to
see this overnight. It will take time.
This is a process. First, you had to get
through the pre-tariff inventory. There
have been other mitigation strategies
that were implemented. Now, we're going
to get further and further through the
year into the start of 26. You get close
to decision time. It's a decision
they're going to have to make. This is
the reason why the Christmas shopping
season and we keep talking about it and
I realize it's still September. It's a
reason why it's going to be so
important. How much are consumers
willing to uh accept some of the higher
prices and how much will some of these
companies have to continue with the cost
mitigation plans? And that I think is
what a lot of people were thinking
about. Marissa, I think we've
reestablished you. Uh sorry about the uh
technical glitch. I'm wondering, can you
get a sense of how much is hinging on
the Christmas shopping season and the
idea of how much consumers are really
willing to uh adjust to higher pricing?
>> You know, we've seen two sides of this
too. I think firstly, we also saw the
supply come forward uh for that shopping
season, which is obviously critical and
we saw a lot of front loing coming
through earlier in the year. Um but
whether those costs have actually been
passed on at this stage, I think is yet
to be determined. I was in a large big
box store yesterday and obviously all of
the Christmas uh attire is in uh and all
of those goods are there already. So I
think that might be a little bit earlier
than before but whether they've actually
passed on costs at this stage is yet to
be seen. I think what's kind of
interesting and you know we've been
talking about you alluded to at the
beginning the US uh and UK trade
discussions obviously the trade uh state
visit here from the president really
interesting that whilst we obviously
have this huge focus on goods trade and
I've spoken about it before with with
both of you services trades really
remains something incredibly critical
and actually very much uh an area where
if you look at the economies of the
future where we're trying to grow uh
something that they're putting an extra
emphasis on uh the economic trade
agreement that was reached and the
particularly the tech agreement that was
announced about 200 million in
investment here into the UK really
critical um and we're seeing that
clearly there are delays in some of the
tariffs that are coming through on goods
but that isn't stopping businesses where
services are a key component to actually
growing and moving forward so it means
that the services businesses can have
that greater degree of certainty to make
decisions I just wonder you talk about a
greater degree of coalesing around some
sort of agreement between the US and UK
I want to talk about China and this
phone call between Xiinping and
President Trump later this morning and I
just wonder how much companies that you
work with that you advise have
completely written off China trade or
have tried to completely immunize
themselves from that supply chain just
because there doesn't seem to be a
definitive end to the uncertainty that
you say is so paralyzing.
>> So I think one of the key challenges
with uh China and the US is that the
China supply chain is very very uh well
built up. There's a huge amount of
reliance between the China and the US on
that. So the idea of shifting completely
away just isn't really possible for a
lot of companies whether that's in
consumer retail, automotive, some of the
advanced manufacturing, even in the
pharmaceutical sector. So there are
obviously elements that they can rejig
and look at other areas. But this is a
critical uh goods supply chain for the
United States. Uh and any sort of
certainty uh as that comes through on
where those tariffs land will be
welcomed by the corporates that we work
with.
>> Marissa, my apologies for the technical
problem a little bit earlier. We'll have
a longer conversation next time. Marissa
Adams there of HSBC. It's a process.
It's not a one-off event. I know it
sounds boring. We all sound like a
broken record, but a lot of people still
expect to see some damage in the months
to come.
>> Yeah. And damage on which side? On the
idea of inflation going up for consumers
or is it going to be damage in terms of
companies looking to cut back further
and that comes with layoffs? And that's
sort of the tension playing out. So far,
it's been a little bit of both, or maybe
not layoffs, but attrition. And now, it
kind of has to come to consumers. And
are they going to be okay with paying $8
for blackberries?
>> You're clearly not.
>> Yes.
>> Based on what you've told me repeatedly.
>> The truth is I'm not. I'm not. I'm not.
And then, ah, I really want
blackberries. And then I do it. And that
is the key. And maybe that is an
indication of things to go. Please do
not use that as your benchmark.
>> Okay. I don't think anyone is there's
any danger of that. But I just wanted
to, you know, that's sort of the dilemma
for people.
>> We appreciate the update. Thank you.
When we've reached the limit of your
tolerance, you let us know
>> and then we know we've got into some
trouble. All right.
>> Futures right now on the S&P just about
unchanged. Let's get you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahara. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. President Trump is asking the
US Supreme Court to allow him to dismiss
Fed Governor Lisa Cook while she
challenges his attempt to remove her.
The Justice Department asked the court
to at least temporarily pause a federal
judge's ruling that has allowed Cook to
remain in her position for now. Her
lawyers have warned that even a
temporary disruption to the status quo
could impact the US financial system.
Meanwhile, President Trump says US
broadcast networks should face license
scrutiny if they're too critical of him.
Trump had earlier praised ABC's
suspension of Jimmy Kimmel over his
comments about the late conservative
activist Charlie Cook, Charlie Kirk, and
also filed a $15 billion lawsuit against
the New York Times earlier this week.
Both incidents have spurred worry
specifically among Trump critics about
free speech in the United States. And a
household staple which has seen huge
inflation might get saved from tariffs.
The Wall Street Journal reporting
lawmakers are planning to introduce a
bill to kill levies on coffee. The
bipartisan legislation would exempt
coffee from any tariffs imposed after
President Trump came into office. Dr.
Bloomberg brief John
>> Yhara, thank you. Of all the things we
mentioned, frequency bias, right? I was
reflecting on what Paul Donovan of UBS
had talked about on this network. I
think he caught up with Danny a few
months ago and he said that consumer
expectations aren't shaped by what CPI
and PC are doing. It's frequency bias.
What are the goods and services you
frequently use, come across, engage with
every day? Coffee is like the number
one. It's the first thing people wake up
to. If they see that move, 20% plus,
that's going to shape their view about
how the economy is and ultimately where
prices are.
>> I wonder how much politicians have their
own index of goods that people buy every
day so that they don't have another egg
emergency or an egg PR bust like what we
got a couple of years ago with egg
prices surging dramatically. Do they
focus on coffee? Do they focus on
cornflakes? Whatever people buy, I guess
people are not buying cornflakes as
much, but you know, these are the things
that actually do shape people's
perceptions and how much will there be
an operation to address those specific
things.
>> It's not the same basket that Fed is
tracking. Let's put it that way. Up next
on the program, a revolutionary
partnership.
>> This is a big partnership and we think
it's going to be fantastic for Intel.
It's going to be fantastic for us and
we're we're building revolutionary
products that's going to address some
$50 billion annual market. Up next,
Pierre Fedigu of New Street Research
live from New York City this morning.
You're watching Blimbe TV.
[Music]
Equities going nowhere on the S&P 500.
pretty much unchanged as well. Likewise
on the NASDAQ, on a Russell 2000. Let's
get to the main event for corporate
America through this week. The biggest
story, I would say, worldwide under
Savannah this morning. A revolutionary
partnership.
This is a big partnership and we think
it's going to be fantastic for Intel.
It's going to be fantastic for us and
we're we're building revolutionary
products that's going to address some
$50 billion annual market. This
collaboration bring all together uh for
the best for the industry going forward.
This collaboration is unleash the new
era of 86 innovation. So here's the
latest this morning. Intel shares seeing
their biggest single day jump since 1987
with Nvidia agreeing to invest $5
billion for a minority stake in the chip
maker. Pier Federico of New Street
Research raising its price target on
Intel to 32 while maintaining a neutral
rating for Nvidia. They say this, Nvidia
saved the product business. The
partnership gives Intel the possibility
to regain commercial momentum and play a
central role in both the server and the
PC markets. Pierre of New Street joins
us now for more. Pierre, welcome to the
program, sir. It's good to get your
thoughts. It's good for Intel. What does
Nvidia get out of it?
>> It's a good question. Nvidia gets a lot
of positive um elements out of these
partnerships. First they build goodwill
with the US administration. Um making
Intel like a strong player in the in the
tech in the global tech ecosystem is a
priority for the administration making
uh the company you know like one of the
the best assets we have to um maintain
leading edge manufacturing in the US.
Then second uh very simply a lot of
Nvidia clients we are very keen to be
able to have x86 within their giant
Nvidia clusters. So, uh, Nvidia is
simply answering a very simple request
from from these clients. And last but
not least, with like the incredibly
dominant position Nvidia has in the data
center world, um it's always good for
Nvidia to show that they are not abusing
their dominant position. And so opening
NVLink partnering um with other players
letting giving access to both their GPUs
other CPUs sorry in their GPU clusters
is actually a very very good thing to do
>> and then the downside for Nvidia is
virtually nothing because as Yensen put
it yesterday it's going to be about
either selling ARM CPUs they purchased
from TSMC or selling uh x86 CPUs they
purchased from Intel.
Pierre, how much is this about the
cooperation in developing chips and and
GPUs and how much is this about the
actual foundry? And this is sort of a
distinction I'm not clear on.
>> Yeah. So the answer is actually very
straightforward. Today there is
absolutely nothing about the foundry
business. We don't even know whether
these chips are going to be manufactured
at Intel or at TSMC. In reality, it's
still an open-ended question. Remember
uh Intel is a very important client to
um to TSMC. So um anything about Foundry
would be like the second act or the part
two of
uh the turnaround effort effort of the
the new incoming the new incoming CEO.
And today there is nothing about it.
It's all about being able to put an x86
Intel chip uh within the scaleup fabric
like this very high speed
interconnectivity between chips that
Nvidia has developed.
>> The way that we've been talking about
it, the way that I've been thinking
about it is that the US is taking a
stake in Intel and maybe pushing others
to do the same because of the
self-reliance uh or the future
self-reliance or the hope of it on
making chips in the United States. Is
that the wrong story? Is that actually
not the hopes and dreams of Intel? It's
just survival to fight another day.
>> Uh I think actually you're actually
right. Um but it's both. So Liber
Libertan the new the new CEO has a very
clearly laid out plan and he has like a
list of I think 10 priorities.
uh one of his priorities is regain
leadership in his product business and
that deal is really about that and it's
very important without leadership in
their product business it's going to be
very difficult for Intel to be
successful anyways and one of the other
priorities is about strengthening his
balance sheet his predecessor has been
on a spending spree investing a lot in
manufacturing capacity now for Li Bhutan
it's time to to to rebuild the balance
sheets so the combination of attract ing
um the US government, South Bank, Nvidia
and potentially others uh onto the
balance sheets with cash injections uh
is very important to Intel overall. And
of course, Intel being strong, having a
strong balance sheet and having a strong
product business is critical to increase
the chances for Intel to be successful
as a manufacturer. So all all that
actually holds together. because there
isn't like a foundry versus product
story for Intel. Intel has to restore uh
both ends of the business.
>> Yeah, just a final question for me. I
think we're all pretty familiar with how
the west views Huawei for instance. What
I don't have the understanding of right
now is the evolving view of China on
Intel. Now the government has taken a
stake and effectively this has become a
new baby investment for the White House.
Pierre, what do the Chinese think about
these developments?
That's a good question. Intel has been
probably slightly below the radar screen
of the Chinese for quite a long time.
And now that Intel is coming back into
the game, the question you're asking is
going to become more and more relevant.
And I would say historically, you know,
in the trade tensions,
uh, Intel has always been like a fairly
protected player because of the the
strength of their ecosystem. Um, the
Chinese have a lot of very simple, very
mundane, but very critical workloads
running on x86, Intel x86 chips that
would be extremely difficult to migrate
um, just because of um, ecosystem
dependencies, all these software
dependencies that rely on what's
available in your existing specifically
Intel x86 environment. So probably for
China, Intel is going to remain a target
that would be very expensive to hurt and
that wouldn't really um present a
significant stake. So probably Intel is
going to be all right in China. That
would be at this very early stage my
bet.
>> Interesting. It's a big piece of their
business. Of course, the revenue out of
that country. Pierre, appreciate your
take. Pierre Faru of New Street
Research, lots to think about. Intel in
focus. I can only imagine if the shoe
was on the other foot, how we'd be
talking about these developments if they
were taking place in China. Yeah, I
think it's a great question. I think
that it really highlights the potential
risk of making it a state champion in
the United States. I wonder what China
thinks of Jensen Huang's relationship
with Donald Trump. Just in the same kind
of vein to see Jensen Wong with uh
President Trump at all of these
diplomatic meetings. Does that raise
questions about how much to push away
from using Nvidia's chips? Just to build
on the point you were making,
>> we're always landing on the same
question. Can he continue to keep one
foot in each market? How sustainable is
that position?
>> Do we have an understanding of what the
ultimate relationship is and goals? And
the answer is not yet.
>> Up next, Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and
Worse, Janet Low of Strategus, and the
former St. Louis Fed President Jim
Bullard. All of that in the next hour on
Blimbe Surveillance.
[Music]
This isn't just about the Fed. This is
also about the path for the economy.
>> We've got a very K-shaped recovery and I
think people overlook this.
>> It's hard to put a pin that you can see
a clear direction for the economy.
>> There are reasons to be concerned about
this labor market.
>> The presumption is that tariffs are a
one-time price adjustment and you're
going to have inflation start to move
lower.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
Ann Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
and your scores look like this.
Secularly futures on the S&P 500 totally
unchanged following a really nice day of
gains heading towards a third
consecutive weekly advance for the S&P
and the NASDAQ make it week seven for
the Russell 2000 this morning down by
about a tenth of 1%. In the bond market
2-year, 10year, 30-year bond yield
stabilizing around 360 350 on twos. Even
as the race story stabilizes, the run
continues for small caps. Even as the
tension builds worldwide over what
happens with tariffs, this market has
moved on. Can you move on from this? At
9:00 a.m. Eastern time, the president
sitting down for a phone call with
President Xi Jinping of China. The
market's moved on. Can we move on?
>> Right. How much more uncertainty is
potentially going to get reintroduced
from this call? A lot of people
expecting just simply a deal on Tik Tok,
maybe to set the stage for an in-person
meeting and then maybe we get more
certainty from the idea that we can kick
the can down the road. Nonetheless, it
hasn't been a stagnant story and this is
the tension right now. Can you have full
reliance on the Fed's backs stop to the
economic growth picture if potentially
companies are forced to make cutbacks in
staff and potentially uh pass along
price increases in response to the
ongoing tariff story?
>> Jobless claims fell back. That was some
good news. So that was all Texas, some
odd filings. We can move on from that.
But elsewhere in the labor market, it's
difficult to find good news after a
massive step down that we've seen in
payrolls. And that's the odd dynamic
that's emerged over the last 2 months.
The equity market's living in 26. It's
an anticipatory asset class. Everyone
else in the real world is living in
2025. And in 2025, they're still worried
about labor. They're still worried about
getting a job. You can see that in the
surveys. They're still worried about
prices and the prospect they go up from
here. I hope sincerely for the sake of
the economy that this equity market is
right and that in 26 we get this pick up
this reaceleration and the outlook for
the labor market improves.
>> And I think that we won't really know
whether it's right or wrong until we see
consumers and the Christmas shopping
season. I keep going back to Christmas
shopping, but every retail executive who
I speak to says it's a mystery right
now. It's unclear exactly what uh
consumers are going to be willing to
absorb. And people say they don't feel
good, but they continue to go out
shopping. The problem is, and Neil
Richardson put this well, that until you
get an ongoing reaceleration, you cannot
get the training programs to shift the
dynamic to increase labor in a more
meaningful way in a vastly different
sphere where you've got different types
of technologies and frankly different
types of jobs that are required in an
economy that's rapidly changing in terms
of trade, in terms of production.
>> And I know this is super super
uncomfortable to talk about, but the
bottom line is the stock market's not
the economy. The stock market has been
trading gone. The capex intentions of a
handful of companies. And when I talk
about the stock market, I'm talking
about the S&P 500 and the labor market
data just hasn't been relevant to the
earning story of some of those big names
for now. Don't know if that changes, but
that's the story for now. The payroll
story has been relevant to the Federal
Reserve. So, if you're an investor
investing in that AI story, you've got
both the earnings and guess what? The
Fed's cutting, too. You're getting the
best of both worlds at the moment.
That's the reason why Michael Hartman of
Bank of America said, "Yes, it probably
is a stock bubble when it comes to the
Magnificent 7, but that means that it's
going to keep on expanding because
ultimately there's nothing that could
potentially stop this." If this does
continue, you keep saying the stock
market's not the economy. And we both
keep saying that. Who was it? Was Alex
yesterday, Alman, who came on and said,
"Actually, increasingly, it does have a
ramification for the economy because of
the wealth effect, but just not for
everybody." And so that's the reason why
the K-shaped economy continues because
people who are experiencing the wealth
effect can go out and buy $8
Blackberries.
>> NASDAQ futures up by about a tenth of 1%
on the S&P up by 0.05. Managing
measuring the wealth of this country
through the price of blackberries
throughout this morning apparently.
Okay, we move on from that promo.
>> I think we can.
>> Okay, good. Coming up this hour, Sarah
Hunt of Alpai Saxon words with investors
going all in on a new chip partnership.
Janette Lower Strategus as a Trumpy call
paves the way for a high stakes meeting.
Plus, a little bit later this hour, the
former St. Louis Fed President Jim
Bulard with the White House casting a
wide net to replace Chairman Pal. We
begin this hour with stocks hitting new
all-time highs after a major tech rally.
Sarah Hunt of Alpine Sax and Woods
writing, "The continued ramp in capital
spending on AI, as well as the long-term
need for spending across the
infrastructure space continues to
capture investor attention and capital."
Sarah joins us now for more. Sarah, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Payrolls just aren't relevant. Is that
the feeling at the moment?
They're relevant for a lot of people for
whom that matters to get a job or not
get a job. For the investment case of
AI, payrolls is not that close to it.
These are not highly people specific
businesses. In a lot of cases, this is a
lot of investment that's going into
automating a lot of things that people
are actually doing. So I think that
there's a tension between both the spend
there and the ultimate result of that
spend.
>> Do you think there's limits to that
divergence?
There will be, but at the moment there
doesn't seem to be. And it's an
interesting it's interesting that you
mention the fact that people are not
paying as much attention to that on the
on the stock market being the economy
and not being the economy because there
is this hopefulness in equity markets
that we are going to get through all the
risks that we had before that the
spending is going to carry a lot and
earnings are going to continue to come
in very good. If we start to see
attention from that where payrolls falls
into that is if I need to keep my
earnings up and I need to worry about
margins that can be a payroll problem
down the line. Right now it doesn't seem
to be the biggest issue. I think there
are other issues but it's out there. One
of the reasons why it's not the biggest
issue is because there isn't a lot of
other evidence of weakness. When we talk
to a lot of CEOs or CFOs, they speak
about a reaceleration heading into the
end of next year. They talk about capex
plans coming together. They talk about
the stock price uh actually bolstering
their abilities to raise capital uh
spreads at the lowest rate since 1998 on
investment grade. How much is that
really the ultimate tell that maybe this
is just the new normal of low fire low
hire but there isn't really that much
weakness in the underlying economy.
>> I think one of the biggest problems and
one of the reasons it's so difficult to
parse out the labor statistics is that
you had a major change in the labor
market with the immigration shift and so
that makes it difficult to know what's
the right number for payrolls. what is
an economy that is ticking along at a
reasonable pace and it's hard to see
that given the historic numbers and also
sort of what's gone on and how the
economy is changing at the same time
because you still have a lower level of
incoming jobs and this is a problem for
younger people trying to get a job
because AI in a lot of cases can replace
some of the lower level stuff that
people used to hire younger people for.
There's so many different pieces going
on it's hard to pick out what's the most
important piece. This is mind- spinning
stuff and anyone who's been following
this and trying to follow themes and
trying to coalesce around them probably
feels as exhausted as I do right now.
And what I wonder is how much people
because of that exhaustion are saying
ultimately it doesn't matter because the
Fed is underwriting risk. Right now
what's going on is a Federal Reserve
that's saying that it will cater to uh
any kind of growth even if inflation is
hotter and so that is just a recipe to
buy stocks.
>> I think it's hard to fight the Fed. I
was a little bit concerned that it was
going to be buy the rumor, sell the
news, and as soon as they cut that, the
market might take a pause or take a
breather here. It doesn't seem to, at
least as of yesterday. But it's still
fairly early. I think that it's
difficult to figure out exactly where
we're going in a situation where there
are so many pieces moving. Were we too
restrictive to begin with? Do interest
rate cuts really help the problems that
we're having on the employment side?
Because it's not about necessarily rates
as much as it is about a changing labor
market and a shifting dynamics that are
ma that may be structural. and how do we
figure that out in the near term?
Cutting rates, the 25 insurance cut that
says we're not sure exactly what's
happening. We may get an acceleration in
inflation. It's a little bit of a of of
a dichotomy that's going on at the same
time and they're trying to solve for all
the variables and I'm not sure what that
solution is. And I think that that's the
problem. And then you have equity
markets hitting all-time highs and you
think, okay, well, does that just keep
going? What stops it?
>> It's an odd situation. If I told you
before the start of the week what the
Federal Reserve would do and how
chairman Pal would characterize that
interest rate cut, I don't know how many
people would have said that small caps
would have been up 3% this week, that's
surprising to me that interest rate
expectations at least projected by the
Fed have stabilized here and they are
well below or above for that matter
where the market is for 2026 and yet
here we are still talking about small
caps ripping. Can you explain what's
happening there?
>> I can try. Um what I can say is that the
the less interest rates are arguably
better for small cap stocks. If we are
looking through the tariff implications
and saying that the US economy is going
to do better, which the Fed gave you a
little bit of information on both sides
there, then that is good for small caps.
People are also looking for places in
the market that hadn't been reaching new
highs on a regular basis all summer
long. So the small cap space did that.
The small caps are also tend to be more
US- ccentric. So if the US economy is
going to be ticking along, that's good
for them. The question really is going
to be where do we end up with those
statistics because right now there's a
little bit of push pull in almost
everything you look at.
>> I'm just starting to get the feeling
that we're not trading this chairman
anymore. We're trading the 2026 Fed led
by someone else. Do you sense that too?
Is that what you're starting to see not
just in equities but maybe in gold as
well? Well, I think that that that the
tension about where rates should go is
obviously being looked at with the
entire political situation of what's
going on at the Fed and there will be a
change in leadership. But I don't think
that you're going to end up with a bunch
of people who are just willing to look
through whatever is going on
economically and saying, "Well, just
because we had a change in leadership,
we're going to have to change our
policy." If the data on inflation gets
much worse, it's going to be very
difficult for that to to play out for
the Fed to keep cutting rates. And I
think that what they're trying to say
here is yes, we see this and we see
that. So, we're going to start here. The
next decision is going to be a hard one,
and the ne next press conference is
going to be even harder, I think.
>> So, I hate to ask this, but what's your
highest conviction right now?
>> I'm gonna have to agree to some degree
with Michael Hartnett and say the
technology is continuing to do well.
That spend is there. Whether or not we
want to make a correlary to other
periods. I mean, in the 2000s, 1999 to
2000, a lot of the vendors were
financing their customers, that's not
happening now. These companies have the
cash and they're spending it. The
question is going to be what happens
when that capex starts to come down
because that's going to be a real issue
but we're not there yet because we're
not at peak capex and every year we
think we are and then you get a whole
bunch of announcements and people say
they're going to be spending more money.
That's a problem for cash flows for
these companies but they're generating
so much cash they're still in the lead.
So I think it's hard to argue that even
though there are other areas that I like
they don't always play out so well.
>> I don't know if that's the high
conviction call but it's certainly the
most comfortable call for most people we
speak to.
>> Ultimately you can make a story and you
can understand it. The rest of it I'm
not really clear on how you understand
the story because the story is still
being written and it's really difficult
to get your head around.
>> Sarah, it's good to see you. The bias is
to buy that continues. Sarah Hunt of
Alpine Sax and Woods equity futures on
the S&P just about positive with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloom brief. Here's Yahara. Hey yara.
>> Hi John. Hyundai says it's going forward
with plans to expand the Georgia
facility raided by US immigration
authorities earlier this month. The car
maker says it will spend $2.7 billion to
increase productivity at the EV battery
plant over the next 3 years. The ICE
raid and subsequent arrest of hundreds
of South Korean workers had delayed the
opening of the plant by 2 to 3 months.
Meanwhile, US law enforcement is
building a profile on suspected Charlie
Kirk shooter Tyler Robinson. Sources say
the Secret Service has joined the
investigation into the shooting even
though Kirk wasn't under the agency's
protection. Plus, the organization Kirk
ran, Turning Point USA, now says Kirk's
wife, Erica, will serve as its next CEO.
And the CDC's vaccine panel has voted
against administering Merk's combination
vaccine for measles and three other
viruses to children under four because
of the small risk of seizures. The panel
is now calling for that age group to get
two separate shots. Merc warns the
decision poses significant risk to
public health by undermining confidence
in vaccines. That's your Bloomberg
brief. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Appreciate it. Up next
on the program, Trump and she talking
Tik Tok.
>> I'm speaking with President Xi, as you
know, having to do with Tik Tok and also
trade and we're very close to deals on
all of it. It sounds like they've
approved Tik Tok and Tik Tok is a
tremendous amount of money for the
United States.
>> That conversation up next with Janet Lo
strategus live from New York City this
morning. Good morning.
[Music]
Hey, you made it heading towards the
weekend at alltime highs across the
board here on the S&P, the NASDAQ, and
the Russell, too. The weekly advance
continues. Make it three for the S&P and
the NASDAQ. Make it seven for the small
caps. Even as the bond market
stabilizes, the front end of the yield
curve really, really hasn't done much
this week. Even as this Federal Reserve
does fall short of expectations for 26,
>> we even had someone predicting a
potential hike heading into next year
and people dismiss that as irrelevant
because it won't be relevant for a Fed
and the FOMC composition of next year.
Really what was notable and actually uh
we just were talking about how people
were expecting you get a selloff if
there was a disappointment, sell the
rate cut. It's been anything but and
that I think is a question to unravel
exactly why that is. two-sided risk, no
risk-free path, risk management. That
was a much more balanced chairman pal
than I think people were looking forward
to. And yet, here we are looking ahead
to 26. And I have to think is because
it's not really about chairman pal
anymore. It's about a different Federal
Reserve next year. And that conversation
with Jim Bulard in 15 minutes is really
quite relevant.
>> Yeah. How much has the paradigm shifted
where there is a growth uh
prioritization and there is this third
mandate for the Federal Reserve of
moderate long-term interest rates which
is a new one a third one and might take
on a very real meaning.
>> We'll catch up with Jim in about 15
minutes time. Look out for that under
surveillance this morning. Trump and she
talking Tik Tok.
I'm speaking with President Xi as you
know having to do with Tik Tok and also
trade and we're very close to deals on
all of it and my relationship with China
is very good. You know we have a trade
deal with them. We had a very good
meeting the other day and it sounds like
they've approved Tik Tok and Tik Tok is
a tremendous amount of money for the
United States. So that was nice.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
fate of Tik Tok now centering on
President Trump's phone call with
Chinese leader Xi at 9:00 a.m. Eastern
time with details of a framework
agreement announced earlier this week
yet to be announced more formally.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
for more. Tyler, welcome to the program.
Let's just talk about Tik Tok and
whether this is the only issue for this
phone call today or whether the bar is a
little bit higher. Can we expect more
than just that? Well, John, really at
this point it feels like Tik Tok might
be the most tangible deliverable that we
get from this call because as our
analysts at Bloomberg Economics point
out, we really haven't seen much
progress when it comes to whether or not
the negotiators are really making that
progress on some of the core demands
that this White House is looking for in
the trade talks because up to this
point, the talks have really all been
about making sure that deescalation
remains in place. We heard President
Trump yesterday telling reporters in the
United Kingdom that he is considering
extending that tariff truce. The
deadline is of course on November 10th
and that's because there's likely a
whole range of issues that still really
do need to be addressed. Everything from
the mounting pressure on Nvidia to the
US wanting to see China curb its imports
of Russian energy supplies. And I'd also
point out perhaps most pertinent ahead
of the call today, uh market access for
US goods as new data analyzed by
Bloomberg uh shows that China hasn't
placed a single order for US soybeans so
far this export season which just
started a few weeks ago. Now perhaps
this is really being viewed as uh
setting the table for a broader
discussion between the two leaders. It
is widely viewed as a precursor for a
potential face-to-face meeting next
month at the Apex Summit in South Korea.
So John, at this point we're trying to
see if we can glean any details on that
front, but then of course awaiting those
details when it comes to Tik Tok.
Bloomberg News of course reporting on
the potential framework of what that
deal will look like, including that
group of outside uh US investors,
existing investors, and then leaving
Bite Dance with a less than 20% stake in
the company.
>> Tyler, thanks for the update. Tyler
Kendall there outside the White House
this morning. Joining us now to extend
the conversation, Janette Low Strategus.
Janette, welcome to the show. You just
heard from Tyler there talking about
Chinese and the lack of buying of
soybeans here in America important to
call Republican districts and states in
this country. Janette, do you think
we're any closer to nailing down those
purchase agreements that really
dominated the conversations back in the
president's first term?
>> Yeah, it's a great point and thanks for
having me on. Um, so I think that
there's a lot of talk about whether or
not there's going to be this grand deal
between Trump and she and I think I'm a
little skeptical about that happening.
What we've seen is what Tyler kind of
mentioned. It's this deescalation. It's
kind of maintaining the status quo.
While there is this decoupling of the
two countries and you're seeing that
with the the fights over Nvidia chips
and um critical minerals coming to the
US and then US sending uh ships over to
China and then also this piece about the
agricultural um soybean purchases. So I
think what they're trying to do is
they're showing their pressure points on
various sides to get a particular deal.
This I mean may all be about Tik Tok but
then also trying to get some of these
other pieces in place. Trying to get
companies in China to actually buy
Nvidia chips after Trump said that he
would allow that. Getting them to
actually buy these soybean purchases
which obviously as you said would be
really important for critical
constituencies in the US for political
reasons. And so then that's kind of I
think where we're going. So it's going
to probably be a smaller deal and trying
to figure out how do we maintain some
sort of status quo? How do we maintain
some sort of good trade relations while
at the same time we know both sides are
kind of decoupling from one another?
>> This is the reason why Janette I think a
lot of people are trying to understand
how transactional this relationship is
and how rooted it is in ideology on this
idea of national security and trying to
immunize uh the respective economies
from one another. Is there any signal in
what we might hear about from Tik Tok?
>> Yeah, I mean I think the one thing that
would obviously be important is what
does happen with the algorithm. I mean
there Trump has been less focused on the
national security concerns that members
of Congress have been with regard to the
Tik Tok deal. And if that algorithm is
still, you know, licensed from bite
dance, I think that's kind of a sign
that this is a little bit more
transactional and less about national
security. But to the other point, Trump
is really focused on other key sectors
where that's really much more the focus
for him for national security. So he's
much more focused on doing more domestic
manufacturing of semiconductors,
pharmaceuticals, defense components,
things of that nature in the United
States. Tech obviously is a big piece of
that. The AI race is a very big piece of
that. I think that's also what his
broader picture is. So being able to
help Nvidia, I think, would be more
instructive almost more than Tik Tok.
FedEx came out last night and said that
it was going to take a billion-d
dollarar hit partly because of uh
Chinese deliveries that are going to be
taken off the table for them or limited
as a result of some of the changes in
rules. A lot of co companies have just
moved on and so have investors from this
story. Is there anything that could come
out of today or the next couple of weeks
with the negotiations that you think a
lot of companies, corporate executives,
investors should be paying attention to
that could reintroduce a level of
uncertainty that really will make a
difference?
Yeah, I mean I think the bigger story is
actually I mean so the call will be
important in figuring out what
deliverables there may be um and whether
there is something broader than what I
outlined a few minutes ago. But I think
also obviously what happens with the
court case before the Supreme Court as
to whether or not not the tariffs that
Trump imposed under the AIPA trade
authority whether those can remain in
place that could be quite disruptive
because we do think that the president
will has a backup plan that even if
they're overturned by the Supreme Court
they will be reimposed under other means
and I think also we want to kind of
watch to see if there is the opportunity
for more other trade deals in this
environment where it gets more um
uncertain and then also kind looking at
these exemptions that keep popping up.
You know, we had the Japan trade deal
and the talk about doing some exemptions
for goods that the US doesn't produce.
Um we don't mine here, things that are
important for aircraft and generic
pharmaceuticals. And is there an
increasing um ability to get a hold of
those exemptions? I think that could be
important for the story larger going
into the fourth quarter as well.
>> Janette, this exemption story, I I think
coffee and that conversation that was
sparked by the report coming from the
Washington Post, I think it's really
important. a Republican from Nebraska, a
Democrat from California reportedly
introducing a bill to exclude coffee
from tariffs. And Janette, that bill may
not go anywhere. I've got no idea.
Perhaps it doesn't. But that's the first
real sign I've seen of Congress starting
to impose itself a little bit here. And
I would love to get your perspective on
this, whether you believe that might be
the first step of many still to come
further down the road.
Yeah, I mean there was another story as
well this week about how um members of
the House were saying that they want a
trade task force and they want to put a
a smaller limit on how long they can
avoid trying to repeal the national
emergency that Trump imposed for these
tariffs. And I think one of these issues
is the consumer piece. Coffee, um you
know, bananas, things like that. Tuna is
one of those exemptions. So I think
there's also a focus on where are costs
actually hitting consumers and then what
is the trade piece and the trade
authority. So it does seem like yes
Congress is trying to maybe reinsert
itself. I don't necessarily know how
much it'll authority will be able to
claw back. I don't think the movement is
that strong yet but I think if there
were to be um you know a worsening
economic situation that is like kind of
the emphasis that you would need to
actually see that happen and we don't
see that happening in the near term.
>> Janette, thank you. Appreciate your
perspective as always and your opinion.
and Janet Low there strategus looking
ahead to what we could see on the trade
front they are already in campaign mode
for midterms that story right there I
think is worthy of more attention even
if you think the bill is going nowhere
just how much of a push will you see
building in the year to come
>> how much is there a recognition that
people are feeling this in a real way
even if it's not showing up in the data
in the way that a lot of people are
suggesting this was what happened to
Biden and I think that that really is in
people's heads where he was talking
about how there is this recovery how
things are better the data shows that
things are better but what consumers
were feeling was the inflation and he
didn't talk about that story in the way
that a lot of people were feeling it and
people were angry and how much is that a
lesson that a lot of people heading into
the midterms are going to learn and are
going to impose on things like coffee. I
think it's actually a really important
point.
>> President Biden and the whole team were
detached from economic reality the way
they used to talk about the economy.
That's a mistake that this
administration and the Republicans do
not want to repeat going into the
midterms next year. That's for sure.
Equities on the S&P 500 this morning
just about unchanged. We need a big
conversation about the future of the
Federal Reserve. We've got the perfect
man to do it. A man on the short list in
the Fed share search. The former St.
Louis Fed President Jim Bulard joining
this program in just a moment. Plus,
your morning movers with your hirer and
a trade warning from FedEx. They shake
it off this morning. That stock is up by
5%.
[Music]
the oven about 2 hours away. Equities
just about positive on the S&P 500
coming into Friday, heading towards the
weekend, closing out the trading week at
all-time highs across the board. That's
the setup in the equity market. Let's
get you some morning movers, some single
names. Here's Yahihara. Hey Yhierra.
>> Hi, John. As you said, FedEx is shaking
off those tariff worries. Shares are
rising nearly 4% after the company
reinstated its outlook. It says that it
expects to deliver 4 to 6% growth next
year. That is way above the 1% that
analysts were expecting. That seeming to
overshadow a warning, as I said, from
FedEx that it will take a $1 billion hit
due to President Trump's tariffs.
Meanwhile, we move on to Tesla. It is
seeing a lift here, up about 6/10en of
1% on some sellside action. Baird
upgrading it to outperform and raising
its price target by 71% to $548, which
represents about a 30% upside from here.
The analyst Ben Callos says that Tesla's
car sales have been slumping, of course,
but the real story is physical AI,
saying that long-term catalysts like
robo taxis and humanoid robots can drive
shares even higher from here. And we end
on another automaker also moving on some
sellside action. Stantis shares are up
1.9%
after it got an upgrade to buy by
analysts over at Barenburg. They say
that the inventory situation is
improving. a turnaround for when we saw
Stances cars piling up on US lots. John
>> Yari, thank you. Appreciate the update.
Three names to watch going into the open
in Bella. On our radar this morning, one
of our top stories, President Trump and
Chinese leader Xiinping holding a call
later this morning to talk trade and Tik
Tok. Today's call laying the groundwork
for a high stakes meeting between the
two perhaps later this year. Elsewhere,
President Trump saying US broadcast
networks could have their licenses taken
away if they're too critical of him.
Trump defending ABC's decision to
suspend Jimmy Kimmel's show indefinitely
over the host remarks about the death of
Charlie Kirk. And finally, President
Trump asking the Supreme Court to let
him fire Fed Governor Lisa Cook. The
Justice Department requesting a
temporary pause in a lower court ruling
which allows Cook to remain in her
position for now.
>> Yeah, and this was largely expected for
him to appeal to the Supreme Court. Uh,
nonetheless, Lisa Cook was at the
meeting this week. The bigger point here
is that President Trump is clearly
trying to put his stamp on the Federal
Reserve and clearly the market believes
that that will happen to some degree and
that there will be a prioritization of
growth at the expense maybe of
inflation. But there is a new paradigm
and a new reaction function from the Fed
and maybe that is what we're feeling in
terms of the market reaction to this
week's meeting.
>> And ultimately she voted for what the
president wants which is lower interest
rates.
>> Yeah. Although who knows what the dots
are, right? This is all about the
forward view. And if there hadn't been
the sort of expectation that there would
be a dovish overlay to next year's
action by the FOMC, would the market
have responded like this given the fact
that the Fed gave them less than what
they were expecting?
>> Next year is impossible and the spread
for next year in the dot plot is
incredibly wide. In fact, it's
incredibly wide for the next three
months, never mind the whole of next
year.
>> Yeah. One of the difficult things here,
and I think this is really important to
keep emphasizing, is that it would be
one thing if people understood exactly
where the economy is going, but as we
were talking about earlier, it's a mess.
It's very difficult to get a clear read.
There are a whole variety of views on
Wall Street about what exactly is going
on and there are different narratives
that are at crosswinds with one another.
So there is an honest economic debate to
be had here. You overlay the desire for
just lower rates in general and you have
a whole lot of confusion leading to a
potentially more accommodative Fed by
stocks.
>> Let's attempt to get a clearer view on
things, not just buy stocks. Let's talk
about the future of this Federal
Reserve. The White House casting a wide
net to replace Fed share J Pal. The US
Treasury Secretary Scott Besson praising
a quote very good meeting with the
former St. Louis Fed President Jim
Bullard during his search. Jim joins us
in the studio for more. Jim, good
morning.
>> Good morning.
>> Thanks for being here. Not many people
get to experience what you've just
experienced sitting down for a
conversation to potentially become the
Fed chair. Can you walk us through what
that was like? What's the process like?
>> Uh well, as you say, they have a lot of
uh a lot of people on the list and uh
they're following through. Uh it's a
transparent process. I think that's
good. I think all the I know virtually
all the people on the list. I think
they're all good. So uh I think this was
uh this was a meeting just to talk in
broad terms. Uh but I can't really
report out you know details of what was
said.
>> The Treasury Secretary incredibly dialed
into the economy and financial markets.
I'm sure you experienced that in your
conversation with him. I think you can
share with us the kind of questions I
imagine that he's asking you when I ask
them to you which essentially is how do
you view things right now? How do you
think about the labor market?
>> Uh I thought the Fed's decision was a
good one. Uh this is uh looks like a
sequence of three moves in a row through
the end of the year. Uh it of course you
want to be data dependent and the chair
stressed that in the press conference
but I think the committee was uh worried
about the non-farm payrolls uh report
that that uh you know revised the
previous uh months down considerably.
You know non-farm payrolls is kind of
the key number for the for the Fed. So I
think that uh made them a little bit
nervous. There are stories that you can
tell about why that's happening, but on
the other hand, you know, it could be
weakness in labor markets. So, I think
that tilted things toward a little bit
more dovish policy. So, they brought
October uh into the picture and now
you've got markets pricing uh probably
75 by the end of the year. That would be
a significant move uh by the end of the
year and they have a little bit of
optionality if the data goes the other
way. So, it's a pretty good decision
from the uh point of view of how this
works.
>> You said they have optionality if the
data goes the other way. How high is the
bar for strength in the economy to
really prevent the Fed at this point
given everything from going three times
this year?
>> Yeah, I think uh the committee is also
uh spooked a little bit by last year
because last year the uh the data looked
weak but then turned around abruptly and
and so uh uh they'll be nervous about
that. Um it's hard to say exactly how
high the bar is. That's a judgment call
that'll have to be made by members of
the committee.
>> There's this other uh disagreement on
the Fed. Clearly, there are a lot of
them and understandably because in Wall
Street there are a lot of disagreements
as well as to uh what the economic
backdrop is. But you could see a spread
uh in terms of where the neutral rate
was from say 3% in terms of the
long-term DOT for some for some of the
Fed members or 4% for some of the
others. Where do you sit? Uh I think
it's still uh fairly low. So you know
you could argue maybe three and a
quarter or something like that. So uh if
you're still above 4% with the policy
rate, you're still 100 basis points
above uh if that's your if that's your
number. So that's why I've been saying
they have room to maneuver. They have
room to come down uh some on the policy
rate and still put downward pressure on
inflation. inflation is still above
target and you know has been uh debated
at length uh over the last 6 months or
so but um uh I think they're in pretty
good position right now.
>> How credible do you think the pursuit of
2% actually is?
>> Uh I think the committee is very
dedicated to the 2% target. Um I think
it would be uh foolish to abandon that
target. the um it has set an
international standard across all the
countries of the world and if the lead
economy says oh you know we're going to
back off that uh then all the other
countries would back off you'd be back
into the 70s and and you'd have a lot of
chaos so that is not a good idea and the
committee will try to get back to 2%
however uh I think you want to get back
on a nice smooth asmtoic path uh to 2%
and the forecasts always show that And
that's always the way the Fed thinks
about it.
>> The two-year rolling view. Now, some
people might say that's aspirational,
magical forecasting. It's just we're
always forecasting this two years out,
but never actually hit it based on
history. Which raises the credibility
question, the Federal Reserves cutting
interest rates with inflation closer to
three than it is to two, with
unemployment closer to four than it is
to five, and with equities at all-time
highs, is this the right time to back
away from that restrictive monetary
policy that's going to lead to that
glide path back towards 2%.
It's restrictive but uh even when they
come down it'll still be somewhat
restrictive. I think one of the pieces
of risk management you have to think
about here is uh suppose
uh the economy is tipping into a marked
slowdown then the committee would want
to be a uh accommodative in that
circumstance and you'd want to be below
your neutral rate. So you'd have a long
way to go. You'd have to really scramble
if that happened. I'm not saying that's
the base case but that's a possibility.
And so you probably want to be a little
bit closer to neutral so you didn't have
to uh work so hard if you got into that
scenario.
>> One of the tests for a lot of people is
if inflation does go up maybe say at the
end of this year, early next year, which
a lot of people are expecting that it
will. What's the Fed's response? Do they
keep cutting or do they look past it as
simply a one-time price adjustment? I
think they've made pretty clear that
they're going to look through uh
temporary tariff effects and um and then
they expect uh inflation to resume its
downward trend and the effects have been
muted. Uh US trade representative does
not have an inflation target. So I think
that uh you know it's it's up to the Fed
to um uh determine what the inflation
rate is going to be not not uh trade
policy but uh so lots of things affect
inflation. Um, and then, you know, you
have to get on your uh your sort of
medium-term path, and I think that's
what they're doing.
>> You mentioned earlier that there is a
degree of fear of repeating what we saw
last year where the Fed cut by 100 basis
points and we saw the long end of the
yield curve rise by 100 basis points and
economic data pick back up. And I just
wonder how much you think the Fed is
open or you would be open if you were on
the Fed now to adjust some of the
balance sheet composition in response to
any move in the long end of the yield
curve.
>> I think the balance sheet policy has
been in the background. I think that's
appropriate. Uh the committee has been
shrinking the size of the balance sheet
little bit slower pace uh recently but
uh I think they're pretty happy with
that policy for now. They want to get to
this ample reserves uh level. Um there's
a good speech by uh my former colleague
Chris Waller in Dallas. Uh so if you
want some bedtime reading uh you can
read that. Uh but that was that was
actually a very good sort of back of the
envelope uh calculation about the
balance sheet and all the pieces of the
balance sheet. So I think that's a good
place to start for those that want to
understand uh current balance sheet
policy. Uh the mortgage back securities
are going to take a long time to go off.
I do think the Fed made a mistake uh in
uh March April of 2020.
uh we went uh all in on mortgage back
securities thinking that the pandemic
was going to harm the housing market and
we got 90 to 120 days in and uh boy uh
it went the other way. Demand for
housing was way up. So unfortunately uh
we added a lot of mortgage back
securities uh over that 2-year period,
but um we're we're going to have to let
that gradually go off.
>> Would you have voted for 50 this week?
>> Uh no, I don't think so. So, I I thought
it was a good decision because the Hawks
uh could say that, okay, we only went 25
and we got optionality on the future
moves. Uh but the Doves uh got the uh
the 25 and probably 25 at October and uh
that's almost as good as getting uh 50
today. Uh and and you do get the
optionality in there. So, that's good.
When people talk about the institution,
you know, so well, just based on what
you've just said, do you think people
underestimate just how persuasive you
need to be on the committee, the degree
of negotiations that do take place about
the kind of things you just described?
>> Uh, it's a it's a you know, it's a big
formal meeting and people are uh, you
know, very good at making their
arguments and and they have uh the
presidents have their own staffs. Uh, so
uh uh I mean I love it. I think it's a
great uh it's it's a great place to make
decisions. I think also people have to
understand that uh you're not talking so
much about what you're going to do on
the day. You're talking about what
should our future path be over the next
6 months and over the next two years but
especially over the next six months. Um
because uh
uh you know you have to it's a big
committee and you have to be basically
on board with you know what you're going
to do on that particular day. You were
very vocal about how you felt about the
dot plot back in the day. Didn't like
it. Put your dot at zero.
>> You can ring this up.
>> Okay.
Mention it as soon as you walk into the
room. It
>> was so significant to see your dot
always just there at zero.
>> Yeah.
>> Are you going to get rid of it? Would
you get rid of it? I mean, what used to
be
>> I think we can do better uh than we have
on the dot plot. And um at one point I
talked about, you know, dropping out
completely. Uh I did drop out of the
long long run that part, but uh I think
we could do something like former chair
uh Ben Bernani outlined in the recent
conference that the Fed had about the
framework review and he mocked up a
quarterly uh report uh that uh that
could be put out and that would put out
a forecast. That's what other uh central
banks do and then members can talk
relative to that forecast. They could
say, "Well, no, I'm more optimistic
about the economy or I'm more
pessimistic about inflation, whatever."
I think that would be closer to an
international standard and that's
probably the direction this should go
cuz that the dot plot has its problems.
>> I remember when you made that move at
the time and I can't believe it was
about 10 years ago, which just amazing
how quickly time has flown. Jim, it's
good to see you. Appreciate your
transparency and good luck with the
process. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
>> Great to be here. Thank you.
>> Thank you very much. The former St.
Lewis Fed President Jim Pollard there
and of course a candidate to be the next
Fed chair. Let's give you an update on
stories elsewhere this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Here's Yahihara. Hey
yara.
>> Hi John. The US has vetoed a UN Security
Council resolution demanding an
immediate ceasefire in Gaza that was
backed by all other members of the body.
This is the sixth time the US has vetoed
a Gaza resolution since 2023 and
underlines American and Israeli
isolation over the war. US Counselor
Morgan Ortegus says the resolution
failed to adequately condemn Hamas.
Meanwhile, following the collapse of
subprime auto lenderricolor credit, its
creditors nationwide are now racing to
seize the company's remaining assets.
The bankruptcy process will determine
how much creditors will recover and
which of them get paid first, with some
already facing significant losses. And
the FTC is suing Live Nation and its
Ticket Master subsidiary for not doing
enough to curb the use of automated
ticketing bots and large-scale resale
operations. The suit claims Ticket
Master coordinated with brokers to buy
concert tickets and sell them at a
substantial markup profiting from huge
resale fees. Live Nation has not
immediately commented. That's your
Bloomberg brief. John,
>> thank you. Appreciate it. Up next on a
program putting the pressure on the EU.
>> If the price of oil comes down, Putin's
going to drop out. He's going to have no
choice. He's going to drop out of that
war. And when I found out that the
European nations were buying oil from
Russia, I was disappointed to see that.
>> That conversation is going to be next
with Amarie from London. I'm going off
for assignment. Lisa's going to run
things. Maybe I'll go for breakfast with
Jim. We'll work something out.
>> Come on, don't go. You're leaving? Sure.
>> From New York City this morning. Good
morning. Have a wonderful weekend. This
is blimp pack.
[Music]
Another day, another record. It seems
like a broken record over the past
number of months. What we see right now
heading into the open just about an
hour, two hours away from the opening
bell. And you could see a lift continue
although not really doing much led by
the NASDAQ and really Michael Hartnet
putting it well saying that there could
be a a mag seven bubble but it will keep
going because of the faith in it.
Russell 2000 yesterday hit the highest
level ever for the first time a new
record high for the first time since
2021 because of the move that we have
seen in the rates picture. Today rates
not doing much. Taking back a little bit
of the rally that we have seen with
two-year yields, three uh 10-year yields
and 30-year yields all up, but just
marginally we've been in this range.
This question of just how far the Fed is
willing to meet the market is really
predicated in the idea of what the
composition as we were just talking with
Jim Bullard of the FOMC will be next
year. I wanted just to point to the euro
right now versus the dollar. A
difference in the trend line. We had
seen this rampant euro strengthening
versus the dollar, a runaway train. And
this would be the third session of euro
weakening versus the dollar. Just to
give you a sense of how relentless that
dollar rally has been, that would be the
longest streak since July 30th. And it
goes to Jeff Hugh's point that we were
speaking about earlier this morning.
Maybe we're going to start seeing some
dollar strength actually heading into
the end of this year. I'm alone. John
ditched me. He's going out to breakfast
with Jim Bullard. So, I'm sitting here
holding down the fort and under
surveillance this morning, putting
pressure on the EU.
>> If the price of oil comes down, Putin's
going to drop out. He's going to have no
choice. He's going to drop out of that
war. And when I found out that the
European nations were buying oil from
Russia, I was disappointed to see that
and the prime minister was disappointed
to see that. And it wasn't him, it was
other countries. And uh you can't do
that. You can't do that. You can't
that's not that's not playing fair with
the United States and we can't have
that.
>> Here's the latest. The EU looking to
answer President Trump's call to curb
trade with Russia. European leaders are
looking to speed up plans to phase out
Russian LG purchases. And Marie joins us
now from London. And Marie, I'm so glad
that you're going to join me uh this
morning. John ditched out. You've had a
trip and been talking to a lot of
European leaders. How serious are they
this time around?
Well, it does seem like the president,
he really is not stopping in terms of
making sure that he tries to get the
European Union more in line in ditching
these Russian fossil fuels. Good morning
to you, Lisa. Um, and we saw this just 5
days ago. The president had a tweet out
and he said, "I'm willing to do more,
but why should I do that if the European
Union is still buying Russian fossil
fuels?" He said, "I'm ready to go when
you are basically your move." And then
he repeated that yesterday alongside the
British Prime Minister Kier Starmmer who
in some ways agreed with the president
saying it has been a challenge for
Europe and they could do more. What we
see now is Europe taking that on board
trying to accelerate their phase out of
Russian LG. You still have Russian LG
going to places like Spain, Belgium,
France, and then of course there still
are other fossil fuel supplies coming
via a Turkish pipeline. When you look at
the biggest importers of Russian fossil
fuels, it's China, India, Turkey, the
European Union, and South Korea. So,
this has been something the president
has been putting pressure on Europe for.
And we heard that from the Treasury
Secretary as well in New York, sitting
around the table with all of us, talking
about the fact that when he brought this
up at the G7 meeting in Canada, he said
everyone at that moment looked down,
wanted to see what kind of shoes they
were wearing, and the room got very
quiet.
>> Right now, Emory, I do want to bring you
some headlines. just crossing as we talk
about this that the EU is proposing
banning Russian LG a year earlier uh
from January 2027 also coming out uh
with Ursula Vander Lion saying that she
will come forward with a Russian asset
proposal. This was potentially to
repatriate some of the money and then
use it for rebuilding Ukraine uh and
such. And she also is calling on EU
countries to endorse new sanctions. Can
you talk a little bit just based in your
conversations? Do you think this is
truly a a serious shift in the EU
approach?
Absolutely. Especially given the fact
that these discussions have been going
on for months. This push has been
happening from Washington on Brussels
for months. I would say since the
president uh stepped into the Oval
Office. He wants to see Europe do more.
And we should also note this is very
similar to what we've saw from Trump in
the first administration. He really
would put a lot of pressure and
criticize then Chancellor Angala Merkel
about the use of Nordstream 2 and the
building of this pipeline and why they
were continuously reliant on Russian
crude but not spending enough when it
comes to the collected defense of their
budgets when it comes to NATO. And then
remember Lisa when he talked about LNG,
he would really talk about the fact that
Europe should be buying more from the
United States and they have been. We
need to give some context to the fact
that we have seen Russian supplies to
Europe sh drop drop sharply since
Putin's full invasion of Ukraine, but
they still are buying Russian fossil
fuels. And that's Trump's point and he's
saying they should buy more American LG
and I believe in his first time he
called it freedom molecules. So this is
a similar tone that we saw from the
president's first administration to the
second. What we're hearing now though
and the context now is that there is a
full invasion of Ukraine now. And what
the president is saying is for the
United States to get more involved, he
wants to see their partners to do more
as well.
>> Yeah. And we are seeing this and just if
you're just joining us now, the EU is
proposing banning Russian LG a year
earlier. Also coming out uh with
proposal about credit card crackdowns
from Russia as well as more chemical
metal components and salts export bans
from Russia. We'll bring you all those
headlines, but just quickly, Amarie, how
much do you get a sense that this will
be enough for the president to come
through with some of the US end of some
of what's been discussed?
>> Well, I think that's a question that
remains to be seen. This will certainly
be taken as a very good first step,
especially since you had the Treasury
Secretary and the president really tried
to get Europe to this point to do more.
But the president said yesterday, and he
was pretty blunt. He said, "Pin let me
down. He really let me down. So, the
president might be getting to a point
where he's going to be more willing,
especially if Europe's taking these
steps, to exert more pressure on Russia.
We should note that Russia
legislation in Congress is still working
itself through. And this would also mean
the United States taking a more forceful
stance when it comes to Russia and its
support of Ukraine. So potentially this
is something uh that is going to be
looked uh light lightly on and welcomed
in Washington right ahead of the UN
General Assembly next week. Emory look
forward to having you back at the seat.
Thank you so much for that and thank you
for all the reporting this week from
London. Coming up next hour, Nadia
Levelville of UBS, Ken Huxer of Bank of
America Securities, Claudia S of New
Century Adviserss and Blake of RBC
Capital Markets. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance.
The market does believe, as the Fed
talked about yesterday, that we are
approaching the trough of economic
growth.
>> Now, it's don't fight the Fed and don't
fight the AI trade.
>> I'm not convinced that anybody's ready
to give up on US technology
outperformance.
>> With stock markets and companies, the
truth is if you're not growing, you're
not going to be around for long. You
don't want to be underweight equities
right now.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Good morning. Welcome back to Bloomberg
Surveillance. John is off having
breakfast with Jim Bullard. I am here in
the studio as we do look to potentially
close the week with yet more record
highs. We did see overnight the Russell
2000 closing at a record for the first
time since 2021. Across the board,
you're seeing gains building on what we
saw earlier this session. It was lower
on the Russell 2000, but really the
catch-up trade gaining steam. A question
around how much this is fortified even
without the participation of the rate
story. We are seeing this morning a
little bit of a bounce back in yields.
The wrong type of up. If you are looking
for uh yields to gain value and what you
are seeing though is just this stability
and that is giving people a lot of
confidence. This is a Fed willing to cut
and look through some of the potential
inflation coming through the pike. Right
now, we're all trying to understand even
if this is a bubble, is it something
that can keep going? Is this something
that is the beginning of the cycle, the
middle of the cycle, the end of the
cycle, and does it matter? Dan
Greenhouse of Solus Alternative Asset
Management decided to come in. I begged
him. I said, "Please, John's leaving me.
I would love it if you would come in.
Thank you so much for being here."
>> No worries. I I I'm a little nervous. I
have to fill in for two people, but I
think I'm up to the best.
>> I think you're up to the task. What do
you think about this idea of record high
after record high and this uh
concentration around the hopes and
dreams of one story amid a slew of just
dramatic uncertainty?
>> Well, my portfolio certainly loves it.
I'll tell you that much. But um so I
I'll say two things. First, with respect
to the new high after new high being
based on one idea, I I I I've made this
argument for some time. I think it is
way too simplistic to reduce what's
going on to just AI in terms of one
idea. It's it's it's spiderwebbing
throughout the entire market. It's not
just Nvidia. It's not just Broadcom.
It's Verdive. It's Eaton. It's as the
Wall Street Journal reports this
morning. It's the hard disk drive
companies. It it has an effect
throughout the entire market and it's
driving large, mid, and as we saw
yesterday, small caps uh up and up and
up. And I I you know the conver you
brought up whether this is a bubble or
not. It very well might be. Uh in fact I
would go so far as to say it probably
is. But the problem is and using the '9s
as your analogous reference point.
People were talking about the '90s bull
market being in a bubble in 1995 in 1996
in 1997 and say it with me and 1998. It
and it kept going and it kept going. My
problem with taking what's going on and
comparing it to historic historical um
reference points is uh to put it simply,
every new high in the bull market should
be bought except the last one. And all
that all that you need to know as an
investor is why is the last one the last
one? And we have no indication yet that
that appears to be happening.
>> Yeah. So you just have to go to the back
to the future and get one of those time
travel machines and you'll be just fine.
I guess uh heading into this hour a key
question is how much can the trade story
and renewed uncertainty really disable
this idea of just keep buying stocks and
this phone call between Gihin Pin and
President Trump. Is that on your radar
or don't you care?
>> Yeah, I mean it is certainly on my radar
and we've talked about this in the past
on the show. I think generally speaking
the market is very sanguin right now
about tariffs. Uh clearly a large
portion of the market thinks good good.
uh uh we know there is this is a
complicated conversation but we know the
the parameters of the of the
complication. Exporters are going to
bear some of it. Importers are going to
bear some of the increased costs.
Consumers are going to bear some of the
increased costs. And the one issue that
I've expressed repeatedly and and stays
with me is when you listen to what
companies tell me during earning season.
I know that conference calls are
marketing uh documents and and marketing
events, but still they're telling you
what's going on in the world. A huge
number of consumer companies have talked
about more tariff increases to come over
the next call six 12 months let's say
and so we the the investing community is
fond of talking about tariffs as a
one-time increase in the price level an
idea theoretically I agree with however
that one time increase looks like it
might be one time here one time there
one time there one time there and I'm
not positive six and nine months from
now that we have a firm handle on what
that's going to look like
>> well we've got a lot to unpack and
luckily uh we have you on set the entire
hour. Enjoy. Absolutely. And right now
we begin with this hour with stocks
trading near record highs. Nadia level
of UBS writing this. We maintain an
optimistic medium-term view and consider
pullbacks as opportunities to invest
particularly in areas of structural
growth. Nadia joins us now. You've been
listening to this going back and forth.
Do you agree that this is sort of a
structural story you can't avoid to be
part of this idea of whether it's AI,
whether it's the Fed easing or whether
it's just the idea that consumers keep
on spending?
>> Yeah, we agree with Dan on many of those
points and it's not just an AI story and
you are seeing that expansion out of it,
but also it's also an overall
electrification story. Now is AI
contributing into that extravation
growth? Absolutely. But the fact that we
also have this push to reshore
manufacturing, we also have just the
overall increase of population growth
and what that means for electrical
demand. So when we look at the picture,
not only AI, but also overall
electrification. When you think about
it, there probably need just in the US
alone 100 to 200 um gigawatts that's
needed over the next decade. And so we
think that that's going to be a $3
trillion revenue opportunity to bring
all the graves up to up to par over over
the next um five to six years globally.
And so that's hidden uh utilities that's
hidden industrials. So it's beyond the
one single stocks that we knew a couple
years ago and it's now a lot more. So to
this point and you're both talking about
the same thing, these sort of themes and
the percolation into other industries. I
just wonder how much that edifies the
idea of rotation as small caps, the
other 493, including ones that aren't
necessarily included in that. Or do you
think that's a head fake uh that just is
a sentiment shift on a couple of traders
and will revert back?
>> You know, small cap has had a few head
fakes. We're finally seeing that
all-time high after several years. And
in order to keep that momentum going, we
know that we need to see the earnings
growth follow through. And that is yet
to be seen. We know that small cap is
highly correlated also with PMIs. You
know, manufacturing PMIs has sort of
been in the doldrum. We've seen a pick
up in new orders finally back above 50.
But, you know, what I'm hearing from our
industrial analysts because they've been
visited with many companies these last
couple of weeks is that some of those
short cycle industrials are finally
admitting that, you know, the the the
the boom that they've seen in the last
few months is tied to front running uh
ahead of tariffs and inventory build.
And so it's not certain that we'll see
this continue durally in new orders and
a a full recovery in PMIs near terms.
And so we do question the durability of
that small cap trade. Could it look
better in 2026 when there is likely to
be more of a sustained um pick up in
manufacturing? Possibly, but near term
we're a little cautious of it. I
understand why people are pulling out
that lower rate um playbook, but we need
more. We're invested in a couple of
small and midcap companies and they've
lately in in conjunction with the
broader market done very well but but
they've been doing well fundamentally
for a while and the debate we've had
internally about some of these smaller
companies is an extension of the David
Einhorn argument where where he has
argued in the past as a deep value
investor which often means going down in
market cap you could rely on the market
coming around to your viewpoint and the
stock or the credit in which you were
investing could appreciate as the market
realized what you already knew. And in
an era of of passive investment, that's
become much more difficult and and uh so
we've seen uh two or three companies
that we own that are doing very well
fundamentally and the stock hasn't done
very well until recently is the broader
market has appreciated and I think so
the first point I want to make is
there's a larger conversation here about
the influx of passive AUM into the
market which is now more than half of of
ETF and mutual fund um AUM. uh what
effect that has on the ability of small
caps in a secular sense to continue to
perform along with uh medium and large.
But I would also add to this point about
you know Nadi mentioned it's more than
AI a point I agree with. I'm looking at
the best performers
>> in the S&P 1500 which is small small mid
and large. Who are the best ones this
year? There's not a a mag seven on the
leader list right now. It's it's Hood.
It's AU angle gold Ashanti. AU, as we
all know, is the periodic table symbol
for gold. My science teacher once told
me, "Au, give me back my gold watch."
I've never forgotten it. That's how you
know it's gold. It's Roblox. Uh,
Palanteer, I guess. Uh, it's Mr. Cooper
and Rocket. There's a a large, and I
only named a couple, but there's a lot
of companies doing very well here that
are not at all even indirectly tied to
the AI AI story. So, I agree with you
entirely. There's a lot going on.
>> Yes.
>> Yeah. Go ahead.
>> No, I'm just thinking to myself, how do
you put together then what to pay
attention to? you know, the idea of,
okay, even if it's a bubble, you can
keep buying into it. How do you know,
Dadia, what to focus on that could
potentially be a risk given that we're
all kind of sick of worrying?
>> You know, we don't think that it's a
bubble. You know, it's always hard to
determine whether you're in a bubble,
but you know, we look for signposts and
yes, you can point to valuations, but
we're still not at uh, you know, at
record uh level. So, we don't think
that, you know, there's not an excessive
amount of liquidity and all of these
other factors as you look for a bubble.
So what do you what are we paying
attention from a risk standpoint? It
does to go back to this AI related trade
because reality is like last year we
remember people are became hyperfocused
on return on invested capital that seems
to have gone through the window out the
window this year and that's because you
are starting to see some signs of it but
when does the market return to focus on
that could that happen next year
possibly right now the investments are
still happening you're seeing a little
bit of pickup in terms of impact on
advertising even in China impact on
gaming but I think that at some point
the market is going to want want to see
more. And the question is when does that
happen? Is that a second half 2026
story? And if that is right, remember
now maybe we have a Fed that's cut
enough to restimulate the economy, you
know, and that small cap gets even more
of a sustainable bill. So we think that
this healthy broadening out is needed to
the sustainability of an overall bull
market and it just shouldn't just rely
on the AI trade.
>> Just real quick here, does it make you
more excited or less excited to see the
government taking a stake in some of the
big tech companies?
you know
>> n be careful
>> now be careful you know when you see it
when sometimes when you see and this is
not you know I'm not talking about a
single stock view sometimes when you see
a good investment and we think that US
tech companies are a good investment
because of the earnest growth that we're
seeing you know why not the government
too our government is recognizing the
continuing innovation that our broader
technology in uh companies are seeing
>> spoken like a true politician Nadia
Levelville of UBS global wealth
management thank you so much president.
Yeah, exactly.
>> Well, I'm just saying I mean honestly
it's a fair question given what we've
seen with Intel.
>> Yeah. I listen I I that for many years
certainly rightle leaning people but
people in general would have said the
government probably shouldn't be taking
stakes in in um in in in private sector
industries. I I I I understand the
president in the administration's
impetus here. I understand what they're
trying to do. My gut, my every my fiber,
how I've learned and how I've
experienced life tells me this is
ultimately not going to be a good idea.
Um, but I do understand saying, uh, you
know, we need a functioning this, we
need a thriving that, and the
government's going to help do that. And
whether it's tax incentives or direct
investment, uh, the government's been
doing this for for quite some time, and
this is just a different variance of
that.
>> I think that Nadia was more politically
savvy. I'm just saying. No, I'm kidding.
That was very good.
>> When I run for mayor, we'll run by vice
president.
>> All right. We're Let's get you an update
on stories elsewhere this morning. And
Nadia, thank you so much. Here's your
Bloomberg brief with Yahara Anand.
Yahara.
>> Hi, Lisa. President Trump is gearing up
for a phone call with Chinese President
Xiinping. The two are set to speak at
9:00 a.m. Eastern. On the agenda, the
fate of Tik Tok and potentially easing
trade tensions between the world's
biggest economies. The call may lead to
an in-person meeting between the two
before the end of the year. Meanwhile,
former Vice President Kla Harris says
Pete Buddha Judge was her first choice
as a running mate when she ran against
President Trump in 2024. In an excerpt
from her book 107 days, which will be
published Tuesday, she says Buddha Judge
would have been the ideal partner if she
were a straight white man.
And Apple is releasing its new iPhone
designs today, including the iPhone 17
Pro, Pro Max, and iPhone Air, as well as
new Apple Watch and AirPod models. Early
sales across Asia as Asia showed strong
demand for the Pro models with wait
times of up to four weeks in some
countries, while Japan had next day
delivery available. Dr. Bloomberg brief.
Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Yhierra, I do want to
bring this to you. CCTV, the uh Chinese
broadcaster, is reporting that Xi and
Trump have been holding that phone call
that it is ongoing. We haven't gotten
confirmation yet from the White House.
We will bring you uh any additional
details as we get them. Up next, we've
got the morning calls, plus Ken Hawkster
of Bank of America Securities with FedEx
rising despite a warning on tariffs.
That's an intimately tied story to the
discussion around China. That's coming
up next. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
The committee's also uh spooked a little
bit by last year because last year the
uh the data looked weak but then turned
around abruptly. It's hard to say
exactly how high the bar is. That's a
judgment call that'll have to be made by
members of the committee.
>> That was former St. Louis Fed President
Jim Bullard who also is a potential
candidate to be the next Fed chair
speaking with us just moments ago. A
question of how much the Fed is
backstopping this market right now. Uh
futures trading with a lift after
earlier being basically flat. uh
building on the gains that we already
have seen. The Russell 2000 really uh
leading the charge over the past few
weeks. This morning lagging behind just
a touch, but this real sense that we can
keep building on this because of the AI
story because of the Fed backs stop
because consumers keep spending. Time
now for the morning calls. First up,
City downgrading Intel to sell, pointing
to the chipmaker rich value. Those
shares lower by almost 1%. Next up,
Barrett upgrading Tesla to outperform,
saying the EV maker is increasingly
viewed as the leader in physical AI.
Those shares getting a little bit of a
lift, up 9/10 of a percent. And finally,
Beimo downgrading UPS to market perform,
noting the company is not seeing a
recovery in demand amid macro uh
headwinds. Sticking with shipping, FedEx
is rising in the pre-market following
better than expected earnings. Ken
Hawkster of Bank of America Securities
raising the price target to $244,
noting momentum in structural cost
takeout. Ken joins us now. Ken, thank
you so much for being with us. And I'm
glad that we're starting with that point
because when I was looking at the
earnings yesterday, the fact that they
reaffirmed their guidance, they talked
about strength despite the $1 billion of
a headwinds or costs tied to the tariffs
highlights to me how much are they using
this as an opportunity to shed costs to
cut staff rather than simply something
they have to do.
>> Well, first of all, good morning. Uh,
thanks for having me. Uh, you know,
certainly they are moving to cut costs.
This is something they've been very
focused on when you think about the
blending of express and and ground uh
and they're trying to get ready to spin
off their freight segment uh early next
year. So, they're they're definitely
working on cost, but you know, they're
talking about a billion dollars of
headwind uh as well to offset that
billion dollars of costs. So, while they
did set an earnings outlook that was a
little bit higher than the street, uh if
if you look at the next three quarters,
it was actually in line. So, the beat
this quarter does not follow through. It
looks like you're just kind of staying
in line with with uh general outlooks
for the rest of the year.
>> How much can is this company still a
bellweather for the economy versus a
very specific kind of industry that now
is affected by all sorts of
international discussions and other
factors?
>> Yeah, very much so. Right. I mean with
the elimination of the dimminimus, uh
you've got things that are affecting
them. You've got Amazon now as a major
player. So, it's not just looking at the
economy. It's how much is Amazon coming
in and taking volumes away from FedEx
and UPS or the post office, right? We
saw a big uh post office contract switch
away from FedEx and go over to UPS. So,
you've got business swapping back and
forth. I'd say, you know, these
businesses though at the end of the day
are very economically concurrent when
you look at the stock performance and
where they need those volumes. And given
we've been in this freight recession for
about three and a half years, the stocks
have felt that and the volumes, but
we've also been in a structurally
changed market where with the advent of
of emails and and legal documents being
able to be signed online, uh you don't
have those those regular movement of of
packages. So, it's shifted from a B2B
market more toward a BTO to C. And that
has really hurt the economics of the
business because where you used to stop
and deliver about four packages per
average stop, now you do about just over
one package per stop and that changes
your cost structure. And so we've seen a
very significant change in the cost
structure from the air freight companies
and and to what you're talking about on
the topline growth, how economically
dependent they are.
>> Ken, corre correct me if I'm wrong, but
domestic volumes are up 4 and a.5% which
I I I think was pretty good. And going
forward, they have this contract with
Amazon, which which I think you would
agree is probably going to lead to an
increase in those volumes. So to the
point about being a domestic bellweather
as I look ahead as that Amazon contract
comes online, isn't it going to be
telling me more about those specific
volumes rather than any broader economic
indications?
>> Oh, absolutely. Absolutely agree with
that. That the spike you're going to
see, you know, again, they they targeted
their outlook for four to 6% revenue
growth. Uh Consensus was looking for
about 1%. So that means you're going to
grow revenues about three and a half
to$5 billion above expectations above
the $1 billion prior target. So all of
that is Amazon. And the interesting
thing there is despite that additional
revenue, they're still actually looking
for earnings to be down slightly
year-on-year. So that would tell you
what kind of revenues are you bringing
on board and what additional costs are
now going in the network uh that are
going to lead earnings to be down
slightly year. definitely trying to
backfill with some additional volumes
from the lost postal contract, the loss
of dimminimus which has been very
significant. Uh but you know trying to
fill that in with with other revenues
but but you can see with profits going
down it's still a battle and and agree
that that's not very economically
dependent. it's on what other contracts
are coming up, but they did win some
core business, right? We heard uh Best
Buy and some other kind of major
customers have switched over to the
network, some from their competitor. Uh
and that's great for them, but but
you're right, as far as the big picture
when you talk about those overall volume
growth, it's going to be uh things like
the Amazon contract win or or other
non-economic sensitive business.
>> Ken Hexter of Bank of America
Securities, thank you so much for
jumping on with us this morning and have
a wonderful weekend. And turning now to
Washington DC, Chinese state media
reporting that the call between
President Trump and China's Xi Jinping
is underway. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall
joins us now. Tyler, what do we know
about the call?
>> Yeah, Lisa. Well, you said this. This is
according to Chinese state media that
this call started around 8:00 a.m.
Eastern. Of course, our understanding
had been that it would start at 9:00
a.m. Eastern, so appears to be off to an
earlier start. We're still waiting for
the White House to confirm the details
here. Of course, this marks the first
call between the two leaders that is
publicly known since June uh since
President Trump uh took took office.
Really only the second time that they
have had these discussions. Importantly
coming to the forefront of the
conversations today really does appear
to be a potential framework agreement
when it comes to Tik Tok. Of course,
we're still waiting for a lot of key
details to emerge about that potential
deal, but Bloomberg News has been
reporting that it's very likely going to
be structured with a group of a new uh
outside US investors. Names like Oracle
are included uh combined with some
existing uh investors and then of course
bite dance will still according to our
reporting hold a share, but that will
likely be below 20% all in a bid to make
sure that it passes muster with
Congress's national security law.
Another big question here is what uh the
algorithm is uh end up going to look
like, whether or not uh bite dance could
be licensing licensing that to the US.
That's going to be a critical question
here as well when it comes to addressing
uh those national security concerns. and
Lisa, yesterday we heard President Trump
uh both in the UK sort of uh dodge a
question there when it came to what the
future of the algorithm is going to look
like and then later in his interview
with Fox News ultimately saying that a
lot on this deal rides with what Chinese
President Xi Jinping is going to say
when they get on the phone.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you so much for
being with us and I'm sure we're going
to catch up with you throughout the day
as we get under updates on this call.
Dan, what do you think of this? I mean,
how much do you track this as an
investor from a day-to-day kind of
perspective? The idea of what new
uncertainties could be built into any
particular trade relationship?
>> Well, you have to pay attention to this.
I mean, obviously, I don't want to say
you invest by tweet these days, but you
certainly truth
>> social truth. Yes. Or whatever it's
called on truth social, but you do need
to pay attention. This is obviously a
humongous geopolitical story. Uh, and I
would also add it's also working in the
sense that that in 2018 we imported like
$540 billion worth of goods from from
China. Last year it was $440 billion
worth of goods. Now some of that has
just being rerouted through Vietnam and
and other countries. But there is a a
realignment going going on here and so
there are companies the shoe companies
the apparel companies etc. They're all
directly related to this conversation.
So you obviously have to pay attention
to
>> does it make some of these companies uh
difficult to invest in to understand
some of their profitability forecasts
given the fact that things like fast
fashion were predicated on the idea of
being able to make things cheaply in
places like China, Vietnam, Thailand.
>> As a general rule, anytime the
government's involved in an industry or
a sector, it makes it a little more
difficult because you're dealing with
non specifically nonprofit motive motive
actors. Um and so yes, by definition
it's a little more difficult but not
impossible. I mean that's our job as
investors to wrestle with anything
external or or internal
>> wrestling is the Fed and trying to
understand exactly how do you like that
transition wrestling how to gauge just
how much prices were going to increase
and what potential appetite there was on
the part of consumers to absorb that
coming up Claudia Sam of New Century
Adviserss as we look through that debate
plus Yahara an on your movers that is
coming up next. This is Bloomberg.
[Music]
One hour from the cash open and we can
see equities turning up as the session
grows older. Futures higher across the
board. Even the Russell 2000 after
hitting its first record high since
2021.
currently up two ten of a percent
building on those gains over the past
half hour. NASDAQ also up about 210 of a
percent alongside the S&P 500. Let's get
those morning movers right now. Yhierra
An has that for you. Yhierra, what's
going on? Hi Lisa. We start with FedEx
shaking off any worries around President
Trump's tariff. Shares are rising
7/10en of 1%. And I wanted to add UPS to
this cuz it is also rising 4/10en of 1%.
They were both up much higher earlier.
Uh and but sticking with FedEx, it beat
on both the top and bottom lines and
reinstating its outlook. It's saying
that it expects growth of four to 6%
next year, much higher than the 1% that
analysts on Wall Street were expecting.
And moving on to another company that
reported earnings yesterday, Lenar
shares are are falling 3%. That is after
profit took another hit at the home
builder, falling for the fourth straight
quarter as it continues to offer big
incentives to get buyers into their
homes. And on top of that, it for its
forecast for new orders also came in
light amid still elevated mortgage
rates. And we end on the publisher
Scholastic. Shares are plunging down
more than 10% after posting a wider
thanex expected loss in the first
quarter and call it the Doge effect
because what Scholastic says is schools
are pulling back on spending due to
uncertainty around federal and state
funding. And that sent its revenue in
that unit down 28% a big contributor to
that wider than expected loss. Lisa,
>> thank you so much. Jihara, we just want
to uh bring this to you. The White House
has confirmed that the Trump Xi phone
call did start. It started at 8:00 a.m.
Eastern time. So, it's been going on for
about 32 minutes now. And it'll bring
you any further headlines about any
results from that phone call. Initially,
it was published by state media in
China, now confirmed by the White House.
Let's turn to the Fed as the Wall Street
uh digests the first interest rate cut
of the year as well as a dot plot
showing a wide range of views. Bloom's
Michael McKe joins us now. And Mike,
there has been a confusion in markets,
an expectation that if the Fed did not
deliver what the market was expecting,
there would be a sell-off. The Fed did
not deliver as much as the Fed was as
much as the market was expecting and
markets did not sell off. How much is
there a sense that this market has moved
on from a chair Powell in at the helm of
the Federal Reserve?
>> I don't know if it's so much that
they've moved on from a chair Powell. I
think it may have something to do with
the way Powell was able to frame it and
get people to believe that the Fed is
inclined to cut rates, but is not
promising to cut rates. No matter what
the dot plot seems to suggest, they're
going to watch what happens in the
economy to the data and to companies and
to earnings and to Tik Tok and AI uh
going forward. You look at the calendar
coming up and we have a lot of stuff to
keep an eye on over the next couple of
months. Anytime we could get a ruling
from the Supreme Court on Lisa Cook and
that will have a big impact on markets,
no doubt. Next Tuesday, J. Pal speaks
again and will give us his outlook for
the economy. Uh the September jobs
report is coming up and and there's a
butt to that. If they shut the
government down on October 1st, we might
not get the jobs report on uh the 3rd of
October. The 15th of October is the
September CPI. That'll obviously be
important. And then October 29th is the
next Fed meeting. Not just the jobs
report and CPI, but we'll get a lot of
data between now and then that will give
the Fed a better idea. And then you got
the long run to try to figure out the
Fed looking at the cook case fallout.
Whatever it is, she's either on the Fed
or if she's out as the president trying
to nominate somebody else. Uh the Fed
chair nomination, which may come
sometime in October, December time frame
period. You talked to Jim Bullard this
morning about that. Fed meeting on
December 10th. There is a cut forecast
for that by the markets. Uh, and Steven
Myron's term ends in theory on January
31st, but if the president doesn't
appoint anybody else, he could stay on
as long as they don't have anybody else.
And then, of course, to the end of
February, the Fed president's deadline.
They have to decide whether to renew all
their contracts. So, there's a lot to
figure out here. And I think that if
you're betting on uh Fed funds futures
for any particular meeting, uh, you you
may be disappointed.
>> Michael McKe, thank you so much. Dan
Greenhouse here alongside me this
morning. I'm just wondering how much
you're discounting what the Fed says at
this point looking to a more dovish 2026
just by virtue of some of the personnel
shifts.
>> Yeah, we've but we've known this for a
while that that the Fed was going to be
shifting in this direction. Uh but but
in their defense uh I think that the the
press in general makes a little too much
out of uh you know Trump getting control
of the Fed. Pres US presidents get to
appoint people to the Federal Reserve
Board and sometimes a president gets a
majority of the board. 99.9% of the time
we've never thought about and the press
has never presented it as if that's a
problem. Obviously there's a uniqueness
to the current situation in terms of the
uh how vocal the current president is in
terms of wanting lower interest rates.
But conceptually, was La Brainard not a
quote unquote a big D Democrat? Um, did
Arthur Burns not spend the entirety of
the 70s begging Nixon to play golf and
wanted to lower interest rates thinking
that would increase his odds of getting
to play golf with the president? So, I
don't think in that sense there's a too
much of a uniqueness to to the current
moment. And I would add the jobs market
is slowing down. And so, if you're the
Federal Reserve, can you tolerate 3%
inflation? Probably. Can you tolerate
job losses? Absolutely not.
>> Which is something that I think the
market very much picked up on. Let's
stay on this conversation. and Claudia S
of New Century Adviserss writing this.
Its dual mandate of maximum employment
and price stability is intention.
Cutting rates to reduce the downside
risks to employment increases the upside
risks to inflation. Claudia joins us
now. Claudia, so great to see you. And
this is really the point that we were
trying to wrap our heads around. How
much does an emphasis on growth, a
prioritization of the employment market
increase the risks of inflation in a way
that isn't fully appreciated? Right.
Well, I think you know POW was telling
us the Fed appreciates this. There is a
tension. Inflation is elevated. It's
been elevated for more than four years
and it's probably going to go a little
bit higher before it starts moving
lower. Cutting rates is not going to
help on the inflation side. So, but I
think to your point, it's about which
one is the more acute problem. If we go
into a recession, which is not the Fed's
baseline, that is not my baseline, then
we have a big problem. And so, that's
what the Fed is reacting to. If
inflation gets stuck, yes, that is a
problem and they will have to come back
to that and it may like cutting now may
make that problem be real in the future,
but it's not as acute. So, it's this
balance of risk that they're trying to
to sort, you know, to sort out right
now.
>> And it's a balance of risks that seems
to have allowed inflation to be above
their 2% mandate for more than four
years and potentially for six years
based on their forecast going forward.
Is this a Fed that might say verbally 2%
but might mean 3%.
>> It's certainly a Fed that has shown its
willingness to give it time, right? So
the target is 2% but the target doesn't
say 2% next month, next year, right?
Like they give themselves some runway to
get there. And the trade-off has been,
you know, allowing the labor market to
be more resilient. I mean, coming out of
the surge of inflation in 2021 and 2022,
the Fed could have gotten that down to
2% really fast, but we would have had to
have a recession, a severe one to do
that and they chose not to, right? So,
you know, there's there's no free lunch
here, right? Like these these the goals
are in tension and they still continue
to navigate this. And I think if you
really focus on and they say it in their
framework, they look at like how far
like employment or inflation is away
from the goal and for how long it's
going to be away from the goal. And so I
think they made the right decision at
this moment. Thinking about the
employment date has been pretty soft and
and disconcerting and but keeping an eye
on inflation at the same time.
>> You know, Chloe, I think you're what the
point you made there about they could
have brought inflation back to target
more quickly but chose not to. As
investors, I think your performances was
directly related to how quickly you
realize that that reality that they
simply were not willing to do what was
necessary to get inflation back to
target. But I I do I do want to ask you
just to pivot a little bit off of what
you were saying and what we're
discussing here with inflation as point
blankly as I can. Uh are tariffs
inflation
>> tariffs are going to increase prices?
Right? So there is a period inflation is
a is an increase in prices. So there is
a period where it appears likely that
they are putting upward pressure and
it's not just relative price changes.
But I I agree with the sentiment that
the it is a one-time price level
adjustment, right? So it's not
inflationary in the sense of creating
inflation forever. But I do get very
concerned and I frankly think the Fed
may be downplaying this risk somewhat at
this point that as you've had inflation
higher closer to 3% for some time people
are just going to build that in like not
everybody's running a model of tariff
effects and this and that and the Fed
independent you know like they just see
inflation and then when they have to
plan for the future a business or a
family they just kind of use what
they've they've seen recently. So I do
worry there's this creep of we just
start building in the higher inflation
and then that get that's where we get
stuck.
>> Yeah. I agree with you conceptually.
Obviously we view things through the
prism of inflation expectations and you
don't want consumers to start adjusting
behavior in that way. But you what you
just articulated there was a worry that
consumers would start start thinking
about it this way. But isn't it fair to
say that the the worry about future
inflation expectations should be treated
subordinate to the reality of the
slowdown in the private sector job
market?
>> Well, I think I mean you need to think
of the price setting process and the way
people the way businesses make
decisions, the way they you know
forecast their decisions is an important
one to make. So I don't want to downplay
the expectations. I will say there's
another piece thinking about inflation
dynamics going forward which is really
the question like what is this doing to
inflation two years from now three years
from now is to think about this these
tariffs are part of a major
reshuffleling of global trade and we
have benefited one of the the pull down
on inflation that we've seen for many
years in the United States is through
good imported goods we have we have
trade we have innovation like that's
actually been something that helps hold
inflation down and even if it's not like
a big effect. Losing that actually could
give some lift to inflation over time.
So, it's not just about what's in
people's heads. Like, we really are
reshuffling the deck in terms of the way
trade is done and the way the goods come
into the country.
>> And this is one reason why some people
are saying it's so hard to get a handle
on exactly what the new neutral rate is
and how much higher inflation just
naturally will be in the economy.
Claudia, you've researched the labor
market for a very long time, and I
wonder whether it makes sense to run the
economy hot, to run the labor market hot
at a time of dramatic transition in
terms of the AI shifts, how quickly
that's changing some of the job roles,
the necessity for companies to actually
invest in reskilling a lot of people. Do
you think that this is sort of a new
priority that necessitates a faster pace
of growth?
I it it's a it's a difficult dynamic to
make I mean running the economy hot when
we already have inflation that is
elevated. I mean that that's really a
risky scenario and I will say you know
just seeing like the Michigan survey
household surveys coming out again
people are very clear like when they
talk about what's wrong like they're
pretty pessimistic higher prices is
still a big issue. So inflation has come
down a lot but accumulates over time. So
there it's not there's not an easy
answer to that question. And a lot of it
is gauging as to exactly how hot we're
running it. Like I think you can make an
argument on the margin for maybe you
know going on the side of let's let
employment run, let's let investment
run, but you have to be careful because
some of the discussions about let's have
a federal funds rate of say 1%. That's
not an on the margin discussion. That's
like a big overturning of like how hot
we're willing to go. And I think there
we need to be very careful because
inflation is not something that people
handle well.
>> Claudia S of New Century Adviserss,
wonderful to get your thoughts. Thank
you so much for uh joining us as always.
Dan, you looked uh pretty excited there
or what's going on?
>> Well, she's talking about how consumers
are still upset about about inflation
and I think that's obviously correct.
Any number of surveys bear that out. I
think where I where I disagree or where
I need further clarity and I think
investors in general do is are they
upset about the rate of inflation or are
they upset at the level of inflation?
And I mean if you go and you fill up
your Amazon Fresh or your Walmart
grocery basket with the same basket that
you bought 3 years ago, it's obviously
going to be 20 25 30% higher, whatever
the number is. That's the problem for
consumers. Not that prices are going up
3% instead of 2%. Although I don't mean
to downplay that to some degree. It's
the cumulative increase that's been
experienced these last couple of years
and there's no going back on that. You
can solve well we can get three to 2%
but consumers who are upset about that
cumulative increase were not solving
that problem
>> and that's the reason why it's an
increasingly political issue even if the
pace of inflation was going down. That's
a reason why people were feeling better
about it. We're going to pick up on that
conversation in just a bit. Right now
let's get you an update on stories
elsewhere. Here is your blue book brief
with your Hira.
>> Hi Lisa. US law enforcement is building
a profile on suspected Charlie Kirk
shooter Tyler Robinson. Sources say the
Secret Service has joined the
investigation into the shooting even
though Kirk wasn't under the agency's
protection. They say agents are studying
Robinson's behavior and online activity,
including his use of President Trump's
name on an online video game platform.
Meanwhile, Senator Josh Holly is
demanding information from OpenAI on the
risks chat GPT po poses to children and
teenagers. In a letter to OpenAI CEO Sam
Alman, the Republican lawmaker said the
company has until October 17th to
respond to his list of questions. The
letter follows a hearing this week where
parents testified about the alleged
dangers of ChachiBT on young people. And
Madonna is getting ready to release her
first album in 7 years. The Queen of Pop
announced a new dance album that she's
referring to as a long awaited followup
to her record confessions on the dance
floor for the project. Madonna reunited
with Warner Brothers, the label where
she started her career. Doomberg brief.
Lisa, thank you so much. You've got to
admire that stamina. Up next, setting
you up for the day ahead. Plus, Blake
Gwyn of RBC Capital Markets as we hash
out the debate about inflation and its
ramifications for the bond market. This
is Bloomberg Surveillance.
[Music]
I thought the Fed's decision was a good
one. Uh this is uh looks like a sequence
of three moves in a row through the end
of the year. Non-farm payrolls is kind
of the key number for the for the Fed.
So I think that uh made them a little
bit nervous. I think that tilted things
toward a little bit more dovish policy.
>> That was former St. Louis Fed President
Jim Bullard who was on the show with us
earlier this morning uh talking after a
discussion about potentially being the
next Fed chair. Happening right now,
President Trump and Chinese President
Xiinping speaking on the phone. The
phone call started at 8 a.m. Eastern
time. Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us
now from the White House. Tyler?
>> Yeah. Hey, Lisa. This is according to
Chinese state media. The phone call
between the two leaders appearing to get
off to an earlier start than expected.
This marks only the second known phone
call between President Trump and Chinese
President Xi Jinping since President
Trump took office. And really coming to
the forefront of the conversation does
appear to be the future of a potential
deal on Tik Tok. We are still waiting to
learn some of these finalized details of
a potential agreement. Though yesterday
in an interview, President Trump really
said that a lot of it is going to be
dependent on how his phone call with she
goes today. This phone call is widely
seen as setting up a potential
face-to-face meeting between the two
leaders. We're eyeing a potential summit
between them next month at the Apex
summit uh in South Korea. And that's
where perhaps we'll see a little bit
more of these tangible deliverables when
it comes to what sort of progress is
being made in the trade talks between
the two countries because, as you well
know, there is a lot on the table and it
doesn't appear that it's all going to
get settled today. Of course, everything
from the mounting pressure Beijing has
been putting on Nvidia to the US
pressuring China to uh scale back on its
imports of Russian energy supplies, even
potentially purchases of Boeing
aircrafts. Lisa, these are all sort of
things that we're going to be looking
out for. Lisa,
>> Tyler Kendall, great work as always.
Thank you so much and have a wonderful
weekend. Turning now to rates, the
picture behind the scenes as we've
watched all of this play out. Blake Gwyn
of RBC writing this. There's no
particular urgency or drive to get rates
meaningfully lower. We still think the
Fed is going to pause or skip October or
December. Jim Buller disagrees with you.
Blake joins us now. I'm actually very
excited to hear how you think that
they're going to push back against what
seems to be a a ground swell of support
for rate cuts despite inflation being
higher and despite the fact that some
are saying that growth is reacelerating.
>> I don't necessarily think they're going
to have to. I think the data might do it
for them. So, we saw this kind of play
out last year where we had weaker data
in the summer, then it started to kind
of bounce back um bounce back into Q4.
And I think we could see something
similar play out this year where that
labor data and some of the downside
weakness that they were concerned about
that kind of moderates a little bit and
you still have this inflation problem
that they're dealing with. Um and let's
not forget that the committee was pretty
split. Um if you look at those dots for
2025, you still had nearly half of the
committee that um you know only saw one
more cut this year. So, I I don't think
it's a big lift to get to that point
where where they're skipping a meeting.
Do you think the market just heard what
it's wanted to hear this week and didn't
actually pay attention to the dots?
Didn't actually pay attention to the
committee, just saw what Steven Myron
did and said, "We're going to go with
that because ultimately that is probably
closer to what next year will look
like." I
>> I mean, I know we use this analogy a
lot, but this truly was one of those
kind of roarshack test plots. I mean,
you could take a lot of different
messaging from it partially because you
did have the split in the committee. So,
there was something there if you wanted
to lean more in the hawkish direction as
I as I tend to do. um you know you had
those dots who only saw one more cut
this year who saw a skip uh for those
leaning more dovish then you had the
core of the committee and obviously the
mir and dot uh was was significantly
lower than that um the economic uh the
economic forecast where very little
changed so it doesn't really look like u
from the June meeting um the Fed's
outlook has really shifted I mean this
was entirely about the balance of risks
you know let me just go on record
because I know you discussed with with
Jim Bullet earlier let me go on record
of saying the dot plot should be done
away with I mean every single meeting,
every single press conference, he has to
spend some time telling you not don't
pay attention to something that we give
you to pay attention to. It's
ridiculous. They should do away with it.
But but I mean, g the one versus two
cuts. I mean, we we talk about this a
lot in the context of equity investment
and you have a lot of equity investors
and analysts and strategists that'll
come on here and say one rate cut
doesn't matter, two rate cuts doesn't
matter. The path is what matters. But
you're in the rates market where there
are investors putting billions of
dollars to work on whether you get one
or two rate cuts. And if I look at the
2-year, it's telling me two rate cuts
are coming. Uh so I would I would ask
you, is that not a fair analysis of
what's going on viewed that way? And
then secondly, uh when you look into
next year, what do you guys think is the
right path for policy? Not necessarily
what they're going to do, but maybe when
you guys discuss behind the scenes, what
should they do?
>> Well, first of all, I'd say don't come
after my livelihood. What would we write
about if we didn't have the dots to talk
about all this time? You know, that
you'll find something else.
>> That fills a lot of paper. So, um but I
do agree the dots are are very tough.
the Fed constantly finds themselves
having to kind of caveat the latter.
>> Um, but I do think one thing that's
interesting, even with a lot of the
conversations I had into this meeting
about people who thought they should cut
50, people who thought they should skip,
everybody kind of agrees that the
terminal level next year is, you know,
roughly around 3%. That's what we're
kind of pricing into markets. We've
priced in a bit of a band around that,
but whether you think they get there
more, you know, more quickly or they get
there slowly, everybody's kind of seeing
the same end point right now. Um, and I
think as long as that's kind of locked,
I mean, that's what really drives
financial conditions. So, you know,
whether they go, you know, two more
times this year, whether they go one
more time this year, if they end up at
the same place next year, that's what's
being priced into, you know, uh, uh,
corporate interest rates, it's what's
being priced into mortgage rates. That's
what kind of matters more for the real
economy. So, um, that gets into very
interesting territory because, and Pal
brought this up a little bit. He said,
you know, one one cuts not really going
to, you know, be the difference between
a recession or, you know, runaway
inflation. Um, but look at what's priced
into the path. It's a bit of a tricky
spot for him to be in because now you
you're kind of saying, well, do you have
to cut along that path to just stay
neutral? If that's what's being priced
into the market, does he have to follow
what's priced into markets in order not
to have the economy actually get
tighter?
>> Um,
>> the market's reaction is the policy.
>> Exactly. Y
>> So, we just have about a minute left.
We're going to do a rapid fire round
because why not? Do you think that the
yield curve is going to steepen or
flatten for the remainder of the year?
Considering that this the flattening
we've seen recently flies in the face of
what we've seen recently, Blake,
>> I'm pretty neutral to year end, but I do
think we have not seen the steepest in
the curve. I do think it can get
steeper.
>> Yeah, I think that's I mean this if the
two years is going to keep coming down
and get a 360 or whatever. If it's going
to come down and the 10-year is stuck,
for lack of a better word because of
growth and inflation realities, then
it's probably going to steepen 75 basis
points. I
>> mean, almost all the steepening we've
had up to this point is is what we would
consider bullish steepening. It's
happened because the front end of the
yield curve is moving lower. Uh which is
interesting because I think earlier this
year a lot of the concern or a lot of
the the the positioning and steepening
was really about the back end moving
higher and we haven't seen that at all.
It's really been all about the Fed
moving down. So um I certainly think you
could see a bit more of that pressure
but also once we get into a full cutting
cycle maybe next year then you see that
that front end price in a little bit
more.
>> Blake of RBC Capital Markets, thank you
so much. Dan Greenhouse, thank you so
much. A big thank you. This was fun.
Great to have you here of Solless
Alternative Asset Management. He decided
to hang out with me this hour and I'm
grateful for that. Coming up on Monday,
don't miss this. Andrew Sheets of Morgan
Stanley, former former White House trade
official Kate Kucawitz, Henrietta Trees
of Veta Partners, and Kelsey Burrow of
JP Morgan Asset Management. We will
parse through any results from that
phone call, which has been ongoing
between Xiinping and Donald Trump
starting at 8:00 a.m. Eastern. This was
Bloomberg surveillance. Heat.
[Music]